Regnal year 16, month 2 of peret under pharaoh l.p.h. Darius l.p.h. Has said the choachyte of the valley ns-i҆mn-ḥtp, son of pꜣ-di҆-mi҆n, his mother being tꜣy, to
the woman tꜣ-sn(.t)-ḥr daughter of ns-mi҆n, her mother being rwrw: “I have given to you a broad place of the estate of ns-mi҆n, our father. Its north is the estate of pꜣ kp,
its south is the estate of i҆r.t.w-r-tꜣ, son of nꜣ-mnḫ.t-i҆s.t. Its east is the road of Amun, its west is the rḥ. The staircase is (divided) between us
and the broad hall is between us, again. I have given to you the storage area which is the courtyard. The storage area which is in the storeage area that I gave to you
is (divided) between us four, again." (In) writing of ḥr-sꜣ-i҆s.t, son of pꜣ-s-n-mṯk.
ḥr son of i҆r.t-rṯ
pꜣ-di҆-ḥr-pꜣ-ẖrd son of i҆y-m-ḥtp
pꜣ-di҆-nfr-ḥtp son of pꜣ-šr-n-i҆ꜥḥ
Regnal year 24, month 4 of peret under pharaoh l.p.h. Darius l.p.h. Has said the choachyte of the valley pꜣ-šr-n-i҆s.t, son of hryrm, his mother being bn-i҆w=w-th.ṱ=s, to the woman rwrw, daughter of the choachyte of the valley pꜣ-šr-n-i҆s.t, son of hryrm, her mother being tꜣ-sn.t-n-ḥr, your daughter.
"To you belongs the half of all which is mine, together with that which I will make in the field, the temple, and the village (viz.) houses, field, slave, money, copper, clothing, barley, emmer, cow, donkey, tomb in the necropolis (litt. place in the mountain), bread of osiris and every thing on earth. They are yours. I have no claim in the world on them. I have given them
to you as your share. As for the other half, it belongs to the choachyte of the valley i҆r.t.w-r=w, son of pꜣ-šr-n-i҆s.t, son of hryrm, his mother being tꜣ-sn.t-n-ḥr, my son, your brother. The one who will come after you because of them (i.e. the share’s) in my name or in the name of any man on earth, I will cause him to be far from you. To you belong their titledeeds,
wherever they are. To you belongs that which I have a right to in their name (i.e. the titledeeds). Written by the God’s Father of Montu lord of Thebes i҆py, son of ḏd-ḥr.
… son of i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w
ḥr … son of ḏd-ḥr
i҆r.t.w-r-ṯꜣ son of ns-qꜣy-šw.ti҆
ꜥnḫ-pꜣ-ẖrd son of … kp
pꜣ-di҆-wsi҆r son of ššq
i҆r.t.w-r-ṯꜣ son of sṯꜣ-i҆mn-gw
pꜣ-di҆-ḫnsw … rs
ḏd-i҆mn-i҆w=f-ꜥnḫ son of pꜣy=f-ṯꜣw-ꜥ.wy-ḫnsw
Regnal year 35, month 4 of peret under paraoh l.p.h. Darius. Has said the herdsman i҆r.t.w-rṯ, son of ḥr-m-sꜣ=f, his mother being ns-ḥr, to the choachyte of the necropolis of Djeme i҆r.t.w-r=w, son of pꜣ-šr-i҆s.t, his mother being tꜣ-sn.t-ḥr:
“I have given to you this red coloured cow which is branded with three stripes on her backside, in exchange for your female cow of red colour branded with the milk jug that you gave to me. She is yours,
it is your cow”. “The one who will come against you because of her, while saying: ‘it is not your cow,’ I will cause him to be far from you. If I do not cause him to be far from you, I will give to you 1 (deben) silver, smelted from the trasury of Ptah,
without uttering any titledeed in the world against you”. (in) writing of wsi҆r-wr, son of ns-pꜣ-mtr.
pꜣ-di҆-nfr-ḥtp son of i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w
pꜣ-di҆-mi҆n son of ḥr-mꜣꜥ-ḫrw
pꜣ-di҆-ḥr-pꜣ-ẖrd son of pꜣ-di҆-ḥw.t-ḥr
kp=f-ḥ(ꜣ)-ḫnsw son of ꜥnḫ-pꜣ-ẖrd
Regnal year 10, second month of Akhet under Pharaoh Darius. Has said the choachyte of the valley pꜣ-šr-n-i҆s.t, son of hryrm, his mother being bn-i҆w=w-th.ṱ=s, to the woman tꜣ-sn.t-n-ḥr, daughter of the choachyte of the valley
ns-mi҆n, her mother being i҆r.t.w-r=w: “I gave you the half of this house, on which I will build with you; which is in (litt. on) the west of Thebes and which is in the tomb of Pharaoh Osorkon. To its south is
the road of Amun, its north is the house of the female choachyte rwrw, daughter of nꜣ-mnḫ-i҆s.t, which is vacant, its west is the house of the choachyte pꜣ-di҆-ḥr-rsn, son of ns-i҆mn-ḥtp, its east is the house of rejuvenation (litt. good house)
of i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w, son of i҆mn-i҆.i҆r-di҆.t-s. I have given to you the half of this house which is above, it is yours (litt. she is with you) I have its other half. With you is the half of the cost which we will make for building on it.
I have its other half. I do not have any claim in the world about the half of the house which is above together with the half of any entrance/gate which is in it. I have its other half. Any person on earth
me included (litt. As for me the same), will not be able to exercise power over her (i.e. the half share) apart from you (litt. outside of you) from this day onward, forever. The one who will come to you on account of her, in my name or in the name of any person on earth, I will cause him to be far from you. And I will cause
her to be free from any title deed or any claim in the world for you. To you belongs the half of its titles wherever they may be. (in) writing of i҆p, son of the God's-Father of Montu lord of Thebes ḏd-ḥr.
pꜣ di҆ … son of i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w son of ns-min
ns-ḥr son of ns-pꜣ-mtr
pꜣ-kp son of pꜣ-wꜣḥ-ptḥ
i҆mn-ḥtp son of ḥr
pꜣ-s-n-mṯk-mnḫ-i҆b son of pꜣ-sr
nḥm-s-mw.t son of i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w
pꜣ-di҆-ptḥ son of pꜣ-di҆-ḥr-pꜣ-ẖrd
ḥr-wḏꜣ son of ns-ḥr-pꜣ-ẖrd
Regnal year 15, month 4 of peret under pharaoh l.p.h. Darius l.p.h. Has said the herdsman of the domain of Montu lord of Thebes pꜣ-wꜣḥ-i҆mn son of pꜣ-di҆-mnṱ
his mother being ns-i҆r-qꜣy to the choachyte of the valley bw-rḫ=f son of ns-mi҆n. You have satisfied my heart with the exchange for my
female ploughing cow of red colour, called by the name of cow tꜣ ??? which I gave to you to plough with from regnal year 14 to regnal year 15. My heart
is satisfied with her exchange. I do not have any claim in the world against you about her. The one who comes against you on account of her in my name or in the name of
any person on earth, I will cause him to be far from you. If I do not cause him to be far from you, I will give to you 1 silver, smelted from the trasury of Ptah as compensation.
(In) writing of the God’s father of Montu lord of Thebes i҆p son of ḏd-ḥr
ḥr-wḏꜣ son of ns-ḥr-pꜣ-ẖrd
ḏd-ḥr son of ḫꜣꜥ.w-s-mnṱ
wn-nfr son of ḥr-wḏꜣ
i҆mn-ḥtp son of ???
Regnal year 5, month 4 of Shemu of Pharaoh l.p.h. Darius l.p.h. Has said i҆ꜥḥ-ms, son of pꜣ-s-n-mṯk, his mother being i҆r.t-w-r.r=w, to the pastophorus of the domain of Amun ṯꜣw-ḥsr, son of ns-ḫnsw, his mother being ns-ḫnsw:
"You have satisfied my heart with the money for the young man pꜣ-šr-n-pꜣ-qd, son of ḏḥwty-ms, his mother being ẖ(d)b-i҆r.t-bi҆n, my slave that I gave to you. He is yours (litt. he goes outside with you).
He is your slave. As to the one who stands against you on account of him, in my name, or in the name of any person on earth, namely brother or sister, father or mother, lord or mistress, and myself as well, saying: 'It is not your
slave', I will cause him to be far from you. If I do not cause him to be far from you, I will give 5 (deben) of silver to you melted from the treasury of Ptah, that is to say 4 (deben) of silver and 9 2/3, 1/6, 1/10, 1/30, 1/60, 1/60, kite, which is
{which is} 5 (deben) from the treasury of Ptah again. Whereas  your slave will belong to you (litt. be with you) again together with his children, forever." In writing of pꜣ-di҆-wsi҆r-wn-nfr son of i҆r.t-ḥr-r.r=w.
ḥr-bs son of nꜥ=f-n=f
i҆r.t-rṯ son of ḥp-ms
pꜣ-di҆-i҆s.t son of i҆r.t-rṯ
ḥr-nḫt.ṱ son of ꜥnḫ-wn-nfr
ḏhwty-mꜣꜥ son of i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w
i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w son of ꜥnḫ-ḥr
ḏd-ḥr son of ꜥnḫ-ḥr
ḥr-sꜣ-i҆s.t son of i҆r.t-ḥr-r=w
Regnal year 31, month 2 of shemu under pharaoh l.p.h. Darius l.p.h. Has said the choachyte of the valley i҆mn-ḥtp, son of pꜣ-di҆-mi҆n, his mother being tꜣys
to the woman tꜣ-sn(.t)-n-ḥr, daughter of ns-mi҆n, her mother being i҆r=w-r=w: "to you belongs the ¼ of the bread of choachyte and everything that it will give
to us, as offering." Statement of the soldier of the nome ns-pꜣ-sr, son of ḏd-ḥr, together with his children: "You will perform
the cult service of (a) choachyte according to the 1/4, as is intended, every day."
Year of reign 21, month 2, Achet the king Psammetich. The father of God Horos, son of Pemaus, said to the father of God Oudja-semtheus, son of Peteesis: I have given you my office of a prophet of Harmachis and my part of a representative
and my part of an investigative (?) Writer who a chamber chief (?), given. You own them along with their income and sacrificial income and what will be added to them from the temple, the field, the city and any
associated (2) place (3) of the temple of Amun of Tehne in Teudjoi : Clothing, incense, oil, bread, beef, poultry, wine, beer, lamps, herbs, milk (and) everything in the world that goes with it. You have
satisfied my heart with the money for these three parts above. Children, siblings (or) anyone in the world, including myself (not), will not be able to dispose of them except you for every year from the year of reign 21 of King Psammetich on, starting with
children, siblings (and) any person in the world. The person who will come to you in my (?) Presence (?) Because of these above parts - I will arrange for him to be "smooth" for you with regard to every document in the world together with children (and) siblings up to to every money, every grain (and) every thing
around the world that will enter your heart by making these three above parts yours again forever. The person who will come to you to take you to the vizier and judge (s) in the name of these above shares will not
say: "Bring a witness writer!" Outside the city where the witness is. By Amun and the King, I won't be "Wrong!" can say in relation to any of the above. I will not be able to withdraw a word from it. It wrote: The Father of God I-hyris,
son of Horos, son of Pemaus, by hand.
For the father of God Harchebis, son of the father of God Psenptais, son of the father of God
Atym-othes, son of the father of God Harchebis, son of the father of God
Cha-sheshonk, <his> mother Chedeb-
iret-bint, daughter of the Father of God and prophet
of Min, the Lord of Letopolis, Thoth
apynchis, son of the prophet Psammetich.
Written [for] the Father of God Harchebis, son of Psenptais.
Year of reign 3, month 1, Achet of King Amasis. It said Pef-tjaou-aoui-chonsou, son of Heriobastis, his mother Chaaou-sn-esis to the swḏꜣ-ỉb-n-ỉt priest Oudja-semtheus, son of Peteesis, his mother Sen-t-iir-na :
You caused my heart to be satisfied with my money for being a slave to you. I am your slave forever. I will never again be able to be free from you, up to all money, all grain, [every thing in]
the world, together with my children who are born and those who will be born to us, together with the clothes, who are on our backs, along with all that is ours and what we [will acquire, from reign 3,
month 1, Achet on] up to each year, forever. It wrote: The swḏꜣ-ỉb-n-ỉt-priest Iah-teph-nachthes, son of Inaros.
Reign 28, month 2, Achet the king [Amasis]. [It said] the rmn-pt-ḥbs-ḫprw-priest, the third prophet of Wepwawet, the Lord of Siut, the prophet [the first-] of-šnꜥ, the mistress of the 16, the prophet of Osiris Chontamenti, the Treasury clerk, tenant? Clerk, troops? [Clerk], letter writer of the temple of Wepwawet, the lord of Siut, the stm-priest of the temple of Wepwawet, the lord of Siut, Wepwawet-hotep, son of Horos,
his mother Tasais to the rmn-pt-ḥbs-ḫprw-priest Nespameduschepes, son of Horos, his mother Tasais, his brother: I have given you the office of the Prophet Sakmet, as a guest in Siut, the office of the Prophet of Chons, as a guest in Siut, together with these 135 (service) days of the third phyle (and) the fourth phyle of the temple of Anubis, the Lord of Ra-qereret and the mountaintop, their
list: third phyle: 90 days [of each monthly service] , fourth phyle: 45 days of each monthly service, annually, together with the office of examiner of the Temple of Wepwawet , the Lord of Siut. They are yours, along with their incomes and their sacrificial income, along with everything that comes out of them and what will be added to them, along with the 2 houses that are in Siut.
One house of them - its south: [the house] of the rmn-pt-ḥbs-ḫprw priest, the first prophet of Wepwawet, the Lord of Siut, Menech-Ra, son of Nekau-men-seni (? ), and the house of the rmn-pt-ḥbs-ḫprw priest Chaonnophris, son of Nechet-amounis, where the road is between them; (his) north: the house of the rmn-p.t-ḥbs-ḫprw priest Oph-maa, son of Thotapynchis
and the house of the baker Amortaios, [son of] Pkrouris, where the road is between them; (his) west: the sanctuary of Osiris, the Giver of Sedfest, and the road in which the road is between them; (his) east: the house of the shipbuilder of the temple of Wepwawet, Ophiertaios, son of Ker-f-r-ptah. (The) other house - its south:
my magazines; (his) north: the house of Mrs. Tep-shena-ortaios, daughter of the rmn-p.t-ḥbs-ḫprw priest Horos, our sister, her mother Ese-reshi; (his) west: the wall of Siut, in which the road is between them; (his) east: the head of the house in which the road is between them, together with the slave Pef-heri-aoui-wepwawet,
son of the slave Pef-heri-aoui-p-med-shepes, his mother die Slave ⸢ ??? ⸣⸗s﹖ -n-pr-n-wp-wꜣ.wt, together with his children, together with everything that belongs to them and what they will acquire. I am far from you in relation to these prophetic offices, these (service) days, these houses (and) these slaves, which are (named) above. Yours is everything that is written above, as your share of the provision of everything
that belonged to the rmn-p.t-ḥbs-ḫprw-priest [Horos], son of Wepwawet-hotep, our father. I don't have any thing in the world against you regarding them. The one who will come to you because of you in my name (or) in the name of our Father - I will cause that he is far from you by being far from me in relation to the prophecies that our Father has given me, together with everything that
belongs to our [father], about which you also wrote me the distance in month 2, Achet of the year of reign 28 of King Amasis, except for the prophetic offices, the (service) days, these houses (and) this one Slaves that are above (named) that I have given you as your share of the provision of everything that belongs to our father. It wrote:
Konouphis, son of Harchebis.
[Letter (?) From X, son of Y to Z,] son of Psenamunis, the Choachytes of Amun of El-Hibe. Give the rest of the monies you wrote about and the monies
[...] .. You have (?) Paid (?) Me (?) In full (?) In / from / the hand of Psammetich, son of Esharpochrates, the (head) of tꜣ-ḳḥy. Have him write a receipt about it.
[Let (?) Him (?) Give you (?) The (?)] Receipt that he will issue. □ It wrote: Teos [in] government year 40, month 1, Peret, (day) 13 (?).
[Month 2], Peret: 6 1/3 silver kite.
[Month 3, Pere] t: 1 silver deben, 7 kite.
[Month 4,] Peret: 2 silver deben, 4 1/6 kite.
[Month 1, Schemu:] 2 silver deben, 6 1/3 kite.
[Month 2,] Schemu: 2 silver deben, 1/4 Kite〉.
[Month 3, Schemu:] 4 silver kites.
Reign 5 of King Cambyses [...] Necropolis (?)
Payment: □ Money that the head of the necropolis has given to Lesonis Thotapynchis, son of Necho.
Month 2, Peret, (day) 16: 1 wine (received) by Esmini's servant, makes: 1 1/3 silver kite.
Month 2, Peret, (day) 20: 1 wine (received) by Iretu-retj, son of the third prophet, makes: 1 1/2 silver kite.
Month 2, Peret, (day) 22: 1 beer (received) by the Kalasiris Wadjit-etis, son of Hep-neb-ken, makes: 1/2 silver kite.
Month 2, Peret, (day) 24: 1 beer (received) by the gardener Peqer, makes: 1/2 silver kite.
Month 2, Peret, (day) 25: 1 beer (received) by Iretu-retj, son of the third prophet, makes: 1/2 silver kite.
Month 2, Peret, (day) 27: 1 beer 〈(received) by〉 the pastophore Ophiertaios, son of Iretu-retj, makes: 1/2 silver kite.
1 olive extract (?), (Received) by the servant Ta-am, makes: 1/2 silver kite.
Month 2, Peret, (day) 28, (received) through the third prophet, [makes:] 1 silver kite.
Total: 6 1/3 silver kite.
Month 3, Peret, (day) 1, (received) by the Lesonis Thotapynchis, makes: 2 silver kite.
Month 3, Peret, (day) 11, (received) by the Lesonis Thotapynchis, makes: 5 silver kites.
Month 3, Peret, (day) 17, (received) by the Lesonis Thotapynchis, 〈makes:〉 5 silver kite.
Month 3, Peret, (day) 29, (received) by the Lesonis Thotapynchis, makes: 5 silver kites.
Total: 1 silver deben, 7 kites.
[Month 4, Peret, (day) x, (received) by the Lesonis] Thotapynchis, [makes: x silver kite.]
[Month 4, Peret, (day) x, (received) by the Lesonis] Thota [pynchis, makes: x silver kite.]
Month 4, Peret, (day) 21, (received) by the Lesonis [Thota] pynchis, [makes:] 2 1/2 (?) Silver kite.
Month 4, Peret, (day) 22, (received) by [the] Lesonis [Thota] pynchis, makes: 2 1/2 (?) Silver kite.
Month 4, Peret, (day) 24, (received) by the pastophore Amenophis-ir-ken, son of Iretu-retj, 2 royal wine, makes: 2 2/3 silver kite.
Month 4, Peret, (day) 26, (received) through the Kalasiris P-oun-hat-f, 1 private (?) Wine, makes: 1 1/6 silver kite.
Month 4, Peret, (day) 27, 2 wine given to the district chief Petehyris, son of P-iouiou-chonsou, makes: 2 1/3 silver kite.
Month 4, Peret, (day) 28, 3 royal wine taken outside of the ration by the Kalasiris Se-hap-moys makes: 4 silver kite.
Month 4, Peret, (day) 29, 1 royal wine, specification: 2 private (?) Wine, makes: 3 2/3 silver kite.
Total: 2 silver deben, 4 1/6 kite.
month 1, Schemu, (day) 1, 1 royal wine, makes: 1 1/6 silver kite; 1 Hin [...], [makes:] 1/3 silver 〈kite〉; makes (total): 1 1/2 silver kite.
Month 1, Schemu, (day) 2, (received) by the servant Harmais, 5 royal wine, makes: 6 2/3 silver kite.
Month 1, Schemu, (day) 12, wine that was given to the astronomer Pete - [..., son of] Oph-na, 1 wine, makes: 1 [1/6 (?)] Silver kite.
Month 1, Schemu, (day) 13, (received) by the pastophore Amenophis-ir-ken, son of Iretu-retj, 4 wine, specification: ...
month 1, Schemu, (day) 14, 5 wine: Peteesis, son of Ophoiroisis 3; the Kalasiris Wadjit-etis 2, makes: 5 2/3 1/6 silver kite.
Month 1, Schemu, (day) 16 (received) by the pastophore Amenophis-ir-ken, son of Iretu-retj, 2 wine, makes: 2 1/3 silver kite.
Month 1, Schemu, (day) 17, (received) through Te-ese-ephonychos, the second prophet, 1 wine, makes: 1 1/6 silver kite.
Reign 5, month 4, Schemu of King Darius. It said Amasis, son of Psammetich, his mother Ithoroys to the pastophore of the temple of Amun Tjau-heser, son of Eschonsis, his mother Eschonsis:
You have satisfied my heart with the money for the boy Psen-p-ked, son des Thotmose, his mother Che <d> eb-iret-bint, my slave whom I sold you. Yours he is.
He is your slave. The one who will come to you because of him in my name (or) in the name of any person in the world, namely brother, sister, father, mother, superior, superior (or) as well as myself, saying: "
He ( 3) is not your (4) slave ", I will keep him away from you. If I don't let him be away from you, I will give you 5 silver (deben) from the treasury of Ptah, full value, makes 4 silver (deben) 9 2/3 1/6 1/10 1/30 1/60 1 / 60 Kite, makes
{makes} again 5 silver (deben) from the treasure house of Ptah, in which your slave is in turn yours together with his children forever. It wrote: Petosoronnophris, son of Inaros.
Reign 5, month 3, Achet of King Dareios. The Choachyte of the valley Psenesis, son of Herirem, said his mother Ben-iou-ou-tehet-s to
the wife Ruru, daughter of the Choachyte of the valley Psenesis, son of Herirem, her mother Tsenhor, his daughter: You are the partner
of my children who are born and of those who will be born to me, in everything that belongs to me and what I will acquire; Houses, fields, slaves,
silver, copper, clothing, barley, emmer, cattle, donkeys, all small animals, every document, everything in the world. You own a share of them, like my children, who
will exist in the future as well as (of) my offices as Choachyte and Pastophor of the necropolis. You own a portion of them. It wrote: The Father of God of Month, Lord of Thebes,
head of priests in the Temple of Month, Lord of Thebes, in the fourth phyle, month priest in the second phyle Teos, son of Ip.
O may Amun make his lifetime long! It happened in the year of reign 9, month 3, Peret of King Darius. Amasis, son of Peteharenpois,
came from the south to El-Hibe. He said to Te-obest-ephonychos, son of Inaros, when he was Lesonis of Amun: Usually
I was given my income in El-Hibe every year since the Senti made me the prophet of Amun of El-Hibe Has. Te-obest-ephonychos,
son of Inaros, the Lesonis, (I.3) said to him: (I.4) May your breath of life be whole! By Amun who rests here! See, it is month 3, Peret, there is no emmer
in the memory of Amun, there is no money in the temple treasury. Borrow Emmer (?) On interest to give it for the needs of the bakery,
is what we have to do from today. The people who are violent in this city do not like it
if there are people besides them in this city. Amasis said to him: Who is it that I can ask so that he can tell me
how the city was destroyed? Te-obest-ephonychos, the Lesonis, said to him: There is no man who
will be able to tell (I.8) (I.9) how this city was destroyed, except Peteesis, Son of Oudja-semtheus, that temple scribe.
It is he who [will] tell you the truth. Amasis called for me. He said to me: Tell me how [
the city (I.10) was destroyed! (I.11) I said to him: Are you coming south (?) To cause me to receive blows? I myself
have made peace with [...] man. I won't be able to tell you what happened to this city. Amasis [said:] It is you who
destroys this city more than the people who destroy it! [He ordered his (?)] Men to guard me. He let [
me on his ship] ff (I.13) who [(I.14)] said: I will take you to the Senti. The only reason I didn't hit you is because you are an old [
ter] (I.14) man. (I.15) You would (otherwise) have [died]. Amasis came to Herakleopolis. He said to me: Now finally! Will you tell me [
how] El-Hibe was destroyed? I said to him: If I get to the Senti and find out that [
the Senti [will] protect El-Hibe, I will report to him about everything that is happening in El-Hibe. Amasis said to me: They [
will make you] listen to me, because you are not a man. He ordered two men to guard me, saying: Let him [stand] in the sun until I (?) [
] of] everything [hear (?)] That has happened in El-Hibe. I suffered great agony in the sun. I said to him: Have a piece
of papyrus (I.19) brought, (II.1) so that I can write down everything that has happened. Amasis gave me a piece of papyrus. I wrote down everything that had happened to destroy
El-Hibe (II.1). (II.2) Amasis read the papyrus. He exclaimed loudly. He said to me: At Re! I have recognized that it is you who are right,
saying: If I tell you the things that have happened to me, these priests will kill me. He sealed the papyrus. He made him seal me with him.
He gave it to a man. He had him taken to the house where the Senti was. Amasis stayed in Herakleopolis while completing
his affairs (II.4). (II.5) He released me. I came to El-Hibe. It was a few days that passed. Pchoiphis, son of Pef-tjaou-aoui-amounis, came
to El-Hibe. He brought the papyrus that Amasis had me write to the priests. They seized me, my son and four brothers
from me. They put us in the block (?). They locked us in a temple building. Pchoiphis deposed
Te-obest-ephonychos, son of Inaros, as Lesonis. He had him handcuffed. He had him thrown at the place
where (II.8) we were. (II.9) He had Inaros, son of Peteapis, (as Lesonis) follow him. There came month 2, Peret, (day) 13, the festival of Shu. All people who were in El-Hibe
drank beer. (Also) the guards who were placed over us drank beer. They fell asleep. Te-obest-ephonychos,
son of Inaros, (II.10) ran away. (II.11) The guards awoke. They did not find Te-obest-ephonychos. The guards who were placed over us (II.11) above
went away. (II.12) Ina [ros], son of Peteapis, the Lesonis, heard (of it). He came to the temple with his brothers and their
clubs. They came over us. They beat <us> to death. They only let go of us when they said: They are dead. They carried us
away to an old tower that was above the gate of the temple. They threw us in,
saying that they would let it collapse on us. Esortaios, son of Peteesis came and called out loudly: Do you
want to kill people (II.15) in broad daylight? (II.16) This thing that you do, it will get to the senti. She will go to the
Colonel of Egypt (II.16). (II.17)It is six priests who you want to kill by saying: We will bring a tower
down on them (II.17). (II.18) I will not be able to avoid writing the Senti about it. If one hears it, one will kill you by saying: Down, down with
El-Hibe because of this! You won't be able to be in a city where people are. They got us out of the tower. They carried us
into the temple area. It was like there was no old person among them except me. My heart failed. I did not know
what else was happening in the world. They thought: Peteese won't live an hour. They let me
be carried into my house (III.1). (III.2) I passed four days without knowing any circumstance that I was in. I spent three months under the hand of the doctors
before the wounds on me had healed. □ At night I boarded a wooden freighter
and came to Memphis. I spent seven months complaining to the Senti and his grandees, while Pchoiphis, son of
Pef-tjaou-aoui-amounis, ordered everyone: Do not let him reach the Senti. Semtou-tefnachthes, son of Chaonnophris, recognized us
and I told him the things that had happened to me. And he made me appear in front of the Senti. The Senti sent for them four times
, but they did not come. They didn't come until the fifth time. The penalty imposed on them was to give them
50 lashes per man (III.7) (III.8) and then release them. They went to Semtou-tefnachthes, son of Chaonnophris. and said: We
will provide you and your brother and your three sons with sacrificial income, a total of five sacrificial income. Have papyrus brought, then we will
lease your five sacrificial income today. Semtou-tefnachthes had a piece of papyrus brought. They leased his
five (III.10) victim income. (III.11) Semtou-tefnachthes went in front of the Senti, saying: O may he make the lifetime of Re! These priests - see,
the Senti had them punished (III.11). (III.12) Your case here is obsolete. May the Senti release her! He caused
the Senti (III.12) to exclaim: (III.13) as follows: You should go away! It happened that the evening before the Senti I appeared together with
Semtou-tefnachthes. I said in front of the Senti: The portion of the prophet of the Amun of El-Hibe belonged to my father
together with 16 other portions of the prophet of the gods of El-Hibe. And he was given 16 sacrificial shares in her name. It was my
father who went to Syria with King Psammetich Neferibre with Amun's bouquet
. The priests went to Haryotes son of Harchebis [the ruler of] Herakleopolis and said: The portion of the prophet of Amun of El-Hibe is a king's portion.
A priest of Amun (however) took him when he was ruler of Herakleopolis. See, he (the portion) is in the possession of his son's son to this day.
Behold, he has gone with the king into the Syrian land, (so) let Ptah-nefer, son of Haryotes, your son, come, then
we will give him the share of the prophet of Amun of El -Hibe! He sent Ptah-nefer, his son, to El-Hibe. They assigned him the portion of the prophet of Amun.
Year of reign 15, month 4, Peret of King Darius. It was said by the shepherd of the Temple of Month, Lord of Thebes, P-wah-amounis, son of Petemonthes,
his mother Es-ir-kai, to the Choachyte of the valley Bu-rech-f, son of Esminis : You have satisfied my heart with the exchange value of my (3) red plow (2) cow,
named with the cow name Ta -..., which I had given you to plow with her from government year 14 (to) Government year 15. My heart
is satisfied with their exchange value. I have no thing in the world to your detriment about them. Anyone who will act against you because of this in my name (or) in the
name of any person in the world, I will keep him away from you. If I do not let him be away from you, I will give you 1 silver (deben) from the treasury of Ptah, cast.
It wrote: The Father of God of Month, Lord of Thebes, Ip, son of Teos.
Reign 16, month 2, Peret of King Darius. The Choachyte of the valley Es-amen-hetep, son of Petemini, his mother Dios, said to
Frau Tsenhor, the (daughter) of Esminis, her mother Ruru: I have a wide space for you in Esmini's house , our father. To the north is the house of Pchoiphis;
to the south of it is the house of Iretu-retj, son of Na-menech-esis; to the east is the way of Amun; to the west of this is the rḥ in which the staircase is (divided) between us,
in which a hall is also (divided) between us. I gave you the magazine that is in the upper room, in that the magazine that is in the magazine that I gave you
is in turn (shared) between us, (i.e.) 4 people. It wrote: Harsiesis, son of Psammetich.
Reign 23, month 4, Peret of King Darius. It said Pouoris, son of Amenothes, his mother Ben-iu-u-teh to the astronomer of Haroeris Petechnumis (?), Son of Osorkon,
his mother Chaaou-sn-esis: You have satisfied my heart with him Money [for] the black cow and her calf, called Setja-iret-bin, the calf of my private cow that was born
in my stable. Yours is it. She is your cow along with every calf that will be born in your barn. Not any person in the world will be able to dispose of it except you, beginning with father, mother,
brother, sister, son, daughter, any person in the whole world, myself (not) too. The one who will come to you because of her, saying: "She is not yours!", I will let him be away from you. If I do not let him be away from you,
I will give you "head for head" of the female cow according to the (corresponding) cow species. If I do not give you "head for head" of the female cow according to the (corresponding) type of cow, I will give you (6) 5 (5) silver
from the treasure house of Ptah, full value, (6) makes 4 silver (deben), 9 2/3 1/6 1/10 1/30 1/60 1/60 (kite), again makes 5 silver (deben) from the treasure house of Ptah, fully valued because your cow is yours again from today until forever.
It wrote: Horos, son of Eschonsis.
Pherendates, who is subordinate to Egypt, speaks to all the priests of Khnum, the Lord of Elephantine: Now
it is (1) Pherendates, (2) who says: There are the priests who the ḥrỉ-ỉdb used to be in front of me, saying: 'May they be made Lesonis!' though of these named priests there is one who
fled (and) was ordered to find him. There is (also) one of them who is a servant of another man. It does not do such a thing to make them Lesonis.
Well, the priest it is fitting to make him a Lesonis - a gentleman whom I will allow to carry out (the office) by there being no thing that he
has allowed to perish , (it is) who will be chosen according to what Darius (the) king has commanded. It is such a person whom it is fitting to make him
a Lesonis (5). (6) Now, the priest who will be chosen to make him a Lesonis - such is it who will be chosen
and who will be brought according to what Darius (the) king commanded. The priest who will turn out to be something he has allowed to perish,
or (7) the one who (is) a (8) servant of another man - such let me not bring to to make them Lesonis. Let it be known to you. Satibara
knows this command. It is Pef-tjaou-m-aoui-neith who wrote this letter. It wrote: Oaphres in reign 30, month 4, Achet, (day) 29.
Reign 31, month 1, Aheth of King Dareios. It said
the Choachyte of the valley Peteparui (?), Son of Es-amen-hetep, his mother
Ithoroys to Mrs. Tachet (?), The (daughter) of Chapochrates, her mother
Tadiamuncherwas: I dismissed you as a wife today. I am far from you.
I have nothing in the world at your expense. I will
not stand in your way (5) in front of any houses,
into which (6) you will go, (7) saying: "Do not take a husband in it!" today [from now on]
until forever. It wrote: Haryotes, son of Esharpochrates.
Reign 31, month 2, Schemu of King Darius. The choachyte of the valley of Amenothes, son of Peteminis, his mother Dios,
said to the woman Tsenhor, the (daughter) of Esminis, her mother Ithoroys: You own 1/4 of the choachyte income of all things that one
will give us (2) (3) a sacrifice for the Gaukalasiris Es-p-ser, son of Teos, and his children. And you shall
perform the choachyte service (3) (4) according to the 1/4 according to their (the dead) kind at all times.
Year of reign 35, month 2, Achet of King Dareios. The shepherd of the Gaus of Teschtores Teos, son of Lolous, said his mother Chaaou-sn-esis to the Hem-priest of Hor-wen-nef Eshyris, son of Petehyris: I will arrange that
Teos, son des Es-amen-hetep, your choachyte, your female, spotted, black plow cow (1) finds, (2) which you gave him (and) which is marked on your name, which Teos, your choachyte, gave me, to feed them, leaving them intact,
who (but) was slaughtered (?) in front of me in the house of slaughtering (?) that was done until the reign of 35, month 3, Achet, (Day) 20. Unless I cause Teos, son of Es-amen-hetep, to find your Choachyt, your female cow that was slaughtered (?)
in the house of slaughter (?) That was done has, until the government year 35, month 3, Achet, (day) 20, I will give him a female plow according to her type of cow until the government year 35, month 3, Achet, (day) 20. If I don't know him I give the same cow according to its type of cow
until the year of reign 35, month 3, Achet, (day) 20, I will give him 5 silver kites from the treasury of Ptah in full silver, makes 4 2/3 1/6 1/10 1 / 30 1/60 1/60 silver kite, again makes 5 silver kites from the treasure house of Ptah in full silver, up to the reign year 35, month 3, Achet, last day of the month. If I don't give him these 5 silver
kite from the treasure house of Ptah in full silver up to the year of reign 35, month 3, Achet, last day of the month (5), (6) they will bear interest against me, each 1/10 silver (kite) on 1 silver kite every month from year 35, month 4, Achet, (day) 1, henceforth. by not stopping interest every month and year that they will be with me, by
also incurring the compound interest up to whatever they will achieve and I will give it to him along with their interest by (in turn) bearing interest. If I don't give it to him along with your interest, on his date of wishing me that he will do whatever, he will have a claim on me as to the guarantee
he wants from me , What ever. Houses, fields, servants, servants, cattle, donkeys, silver, copper, fabric, barley, emmer, every thing and everything that I have in the world. And he should take them (= the securities) as a replacement for it (= the money) until he fills them with his above money together with their interest, in that they (again) bear interest.
I will not be able to say: "I gave him cow, money (or) interest on it" while this document is in his hand. These above monies and their interest in bearing interest (in turn) are upon me and my children. It wrote: Pef-tjaou-m-aoui-obastis, son of Eschonsis.
Year of reign 35, month 3, Peret of King Darius. It said Iretu-redj, son of Har-m-sa-f, "his" mother Eshyris to the choachyte of the necropolis of Djeme Ithoroys, son of Psenesis, his mother Tsenhor:
I gave you this red cow, which is branded with 3 ṯꜥr punches on the fore leg in exchange for your female red cow who is branded with the "milk jug" that you gave me. She is yours;
she is your cow. The one who will come to you because of her, saying: "She is not your cow", I will let him be away from you. If I do not let him be away, I will give you a silver (deben) from the treasure house of Ptah,
cast, (3), (4) without leading any process in the world with you. It wrote: Osoroeris, son of Esmetis.
Voice of the servant Chnoum-machis, son of Haronnophris, before his master Farnavâ. O may Re let his lifetime be long! Osoreris
let me stand in front of Farnavâ, saying: "Go with Âtrpâna into the mountains. Let them
load this ship (?) (Rto.2). (Rto.3) If you take it away "Have the things in it brought to my house. Have them put in a magazine until I get there."
Then we reached the mountains. This ship (?) Was loaded. It was carried away at night in the year of government 36,
in (?) Month 2, Schemu, (day) 15. Then Âtrpâna said to the Ma (-Libyans) who were on the ship (?): "The grain, that
was found in this ship (?) (rto.5), (rto.6) brings it to the ground so that it can be stored. " I said to him: "If the grain is stored on
this ground (rto.6), (rto.7) without the men who are supposed to transport it to Egypt being present, the rebels who
Are in the mountains, come to him at night. They will steal it. We see the rebels when they
are facing us in the mountains in the southern region. " Âtrpâna can see them too. It happens regularly that they
sit opposite us (rto.9) during the day (rto.10) but there is a large distance between us and them. If the grain
is brought down (rto.10), (rto.11) without there are warriors to guard this grain, the rebels
will come to him at night (rto.11) come. (rto.12) You will take it. If your Excellency (literally: "his master") likes it, (and) if the grain
is to be brought to the house of Osoreris (rto.12), (vso.1) let Âtrpâna write it, don't to be brought to the ground.
And it should happen that the grain that you will be able to bring down in one (single) load is what you
will bring down from the ship (?) (vso.2). (vso.3) And the men are supposed to guard the rest by sitting in the ship (?). You have not yet completed
to put a ... on the ship (?) Until this eighth hour of the year of government 36, month 2, Schemu, (day) 17. I still wanted
write about the accounts of the things found. It wrote: the servant of Chnoum-machi, son of Haronnophris, in the reign of 36, month 2, Shemu, (day) 17th
Voice of the servant of Chnoum-machi, son of Haronnophris, before his master Farnavâ.
Reign 2, month 4, Achet of King Psammetich. The Gaukalasiris Statamounkous, son of Es-pochrates, said it to the Gaukalasiris Temenaphynchis, son of Peteharenpois, his mother Senemous:
You are my partner in this female (?), Red cow, the one with the obelisk and the milk can is stamped and which we both bought together. You own her half and half of her calves
which she will give birth from now on. Not just any person in the world, father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, including me (not), will be able to dispose of her half and half of her calves that she will give birth
except you. Your profit and loss will be shared between the two of us. It wrote: Onnophris, son of Thotapynchis.
[year of reign] 2 (?), Month 3, Achet the king Psammetich. It said Ir-hat-ou-n-her, son of Oaphres, his mother Ta-chebes, to
[..., son of] Inaros: I am far from the right to the black donkey that is on my name is branded by being branded with
[...] knife (?) on her rump for which I stood up against you, saying, "I bought her".
She is yours, your donkey she is from now on and forever. Not just any person in the world will be able to dispose of them
[except you,] beginning with father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, me too, if (not). The one who will come up against you because of her, saying:
["She is] (5) not your donkey", (6) he [I] will keep away from you. [If I] don't let him [be] your donkey will again be yours together with her boys who are born
and (those) who she will give birth from now on and forever. It wrote: Peteharpochrates, son of Teos.
Year of reign 2, month 1, Peret des Inaros, the great of the Bakals (?). It said Petosiris,
[son of Mes-] r-retoui-f, his mother T-iir-na to T-iir-na, the (daughter) of Pete-amen-heb,
the astronomer , her mother Ii-rou: You satisfied my heart
with the money for this 2/3 "water day" (from) the water of the children of Harchebis (?). I (?) Am (?) Far (?) From (?) You (?)
[in (?) Relation (?) To (?) The (?) X (?)] "Water [days" ] that belong to me in it. It is yours, this above water, with
[its wood, its field,] its land (and) its part in every plot of land from today
[henceforth until] forever. Not any person in the world, including myself (not),
will be able to [dispose] of it except you. The person who will act against [you]
[therefore] - I will let him be away from [you] [...]
Reign 17, month 2, Achet of King Nectanebis. It was said by the sealer and embalmer Achomneuis, son of Achoapis, called Petosiris, his mother Tamounis to the woman Pesti, daughter of the sealer and embalmer Achoapis, called Petosiris, her mother Anches: You made my heart happy with the age of 30 Silver (deben) of the pieces that are from the treasure house of Ptah, full value, makes 29 silver (deben) and 9 2/3 1/6 1/10 1/30 1/60 1/60 kite, in turn makes 30 silver ( deben) of the pieces that are from the treasure house of Ptah, full-fledged, as your supply. To the children you will bear me belong everything that is mine and that which I will acquire;
House, field, yard, building site, servant, servant, every office, every court document, every thing of a free person in the world of mine. And I'll give you 36 (sack) emmer, the (oipe closed) 40 out, makes 24 (sack) barley, the (oipe closed) 40 out, makes 36 (sack) emmer, the (oipe shut) 40 out, again, (and) 1 silver (deben), 2 kite of the pieces that are in the treasury of Ptah, full value, makes 1 silver (deben), 1 2/3 1/6 1/10 1/30 1/60 1/60 Kite, make 1 silver (deben) 2 kite from the pieces that are in the treasure house of Ptah, full value, in turn, as your annual maintenance, in the house you want. You are the one who is authorized with regard to the arrears of your support, which will be borne by me; and i will give it to you. Everything that belongs to me and
what I will acquire is the pledge for your above supply. I will not be able to say to you: "Receive your above provision!". I will give it to you at your appointment when you wish it. I will not be able to take an oath on you and the witness of the charter outside of the house where the judges are. Whereby the god sealer and embalmer Achoapis, called Petosiris, son of Psentaes, his mother Pesti, his father, says: Receive the above god sealer and embalmer Achomneuis, my eldest son, his mother Tamounis so that
he carries out the above pension certificate and he does you fulfilled their legal entitlement. where he also says: Do each of the above! My heart is satisfied with it. It wrote: The astronomer des Sobek Marres, son of Ptah-nefer.
[... its] courtyards and its buildings and [every] house [with them ...]
[... The oath and proof which] they shall take you to cause us do it in [their] name, [we shall do. ...]
[Written by NN by being a witness in the year of reign ... of King Artaxerxes] testimony, which the surveyor of Perherischef Artais, son of Semthortaios, his mother is Ta [..., the NN opposite] has made. [...]
[..., which is ... Gottesellen from south] to north, which is 5 (?) Gottesellen from west to east, which [...]
[... his] courtyards and his buildings with every house with them. [...]
[m-sẖꜣ NN ỉw⸗fn mtr n ḥsb.t ... (n)] pr-ꜥꜣ ꜣrṱḫšsš n ḏd ỉ: ỉri̯ [ẖy n Pr-ḥr-šf Ỉꜥḥ-ỉ: ỉri̯ -di̯-s sꜣ Smꜣ-tꜣ.wỉ-ỉ: ỉri̯-di̯-s mw.t⸗f Tꜣ -... n NN ...]
[...] ⸢ḥr⸣ (?) pꜣy⸗ w mꜣꜥ mḥ.tỉ ḥnꜥ nꜣy⸗n ꜥ.wỉ ⸢ntỉ⸣ n. [...]
[...] . . . . ⸢Ntỉ ẖr⸣ nꜣy⸗f ẖrd.w ỉꜣb.tỉ nꜣ ꜥ.wỉ n. [...]
[... mtw⸗k pꜣ ntỉ.ỉw⸗n mꜣꜥ.k] n.ỉm⸗f ⸢n-rn⸣⸗w pꜣ ꜥnḫ pꜣ ḏi̯.t-ꜥḥꜥ-rd.wỉ [ ntỉ ỉw⸗wr ḏi̯.ts m-sꜣ⸗kr ḏi̯.t ỉri̯⸗nn rn⸗w ỉw⸗nr ỉri̯⸗f ...]
[Written by NN by speaking in the year of reign ... of King Artaxer] xes [was a witness] of the testimony made by the surveyor of Per [herischef Artais, son of Semthortaios, his mother is Ta ..., opposite the NN]. [...]
[... that is ... Gottesellen from north to] south [is], that is 11 Gottesellen from west to east [...]
[...], son des Werhotep. (?) North: your houses. East:. . . [...]
[...] of every court document and thing in the world. You own [every] document (?) [...]
Year of reign 1, athyr of King Khababash. Frau Stilbone, daughter of Peteharpokrates, said: You made me your wife. You gave me 5 silver kites - results in 2 1/2 staters, again results in 5 silver kites -
as my gift for women. If I should leave you as a husband and hate you and love a man other than you, I'll give you 2 1/2 silver kites - makes 1 1/4 {silver kites} stater, which makes 2 1/2 silver kites - out of those 5 silver kites - results in 2 1/2 staters, in turn results in 5 silver kites - which have given to me as my women's gift, in that I
am far from you in relation to the third of everything and every thing that I will acquire with you. The day you tell me: "Copy the wording of the above document onto another papyrus!", I will copy it. I will transfer every statement above to the said document. I will have them filled with 16 witnesses. I will give it to you in that I will not be able to give you an appointment other than him without litigating you in some matter in the world
. Written by Peteharpres, son of Pikas.
A mast that stands on [the / who] ... by making up 100 divine cells in length by making 3 divine cells in diameter at its base,
(and) by making 1 divine cell (in diameter) at its tip, is set in copper. If it happens that the mast is fetched from
the enclosure (rto, x + II.2) (rto, x + II.3) and water is measured into the enclosure, how much water is measured take them up again?
What is the number of square cells on the mast? □ the way of doing it; in detail:
you should add one for the diameter of its tip to 3 for the diameter of [its] foot, makes 4.
you should take its half, makes 2. You should calculate 2 times 2, makes 4.
You should take its 1/4, which (?) Also (?) Always (?) Happens to the diameter; then subtract 1/4 of them, remainder: 3.
You should calculate 100 times 3 because of the length of the mast, which is 100 (God's cells), makes 300. That is the number (an Square cells) of the mast.
The way to find the number of Hin that go into the real cubit, 1 times 1, [their] depth is [1]:
You know the number of hand-widths that go into the ulna of Thoth is 7.
You should calculate 7 times 7, makes 49.
You should calculate 49 times 7 , □ makes 343.
You should say: "The Hin is 1 hand's breadth times 1, its depth is 1.".
You should say: "[343] Go there [into a (square) square,] 1 [times 1, its depth is 1."].
[You should] 34 [3] times 300 [calculate], which is the number (of squares) of the mast, makes 102900,
the number of Hin of water that goes into the copper surround (and) that goes into [the] mast.
See, his plan: □ 1 | 3 100, makes 102900 hin of water.
A mast that stands in that it makes up 90 divine cells in length, in that it makes 3 divine cells in diameter at its foot [ß], (and) by having 1 divine cell (in diameter) at his Point [makes],
is set in copper. When it happens that the mast is taken out of the enclosure and water is measured,
how much water will it absorb? What is the number of hin of water that the enclosure will hold?
What is the number of divine cells on the mast? The way of doing it; in detail:
you should add one for the diameter of its tip to 3 for the diameter of its foot, makes 4. (rto, x + II.6) you should take its 1/2, makes 2. You should calculate 2 times 2, ↑ makes 4 ↑.
You should take its 1/4, whatever (?) also (?) always (?) happens to the diameter; then subtract 1/4 of them, remainder: 3.
You should calculate 90 times 3 because of the length of the mast, which is 90 (God's cells), makes 270. That is the number (the Square cells) of the mast.
The way to find the number of Hin that go into the cubit, 1 times 1, their depth is 1:
You know the number of hand widths, The one that goes into Thoth's cubit makes 7. You should calculate 7 times 7, makes 49.
You should calculate 49 times 7, □ makes 343. You should say: "Hin is 1 Hand width times 1, its depth is 1. ".
You should say: "343 Go into a (square) square, 1 times 1, its depth is 1.".
You should calculate 343 times 270, which is the number (of squares) of the mast, makes 92610,
the number of Hin of water that goes into the enclosure made of copper go (and) those who go into [the] mast. □ [See, his P] lan: □ 1 | 3 90
When you are told: "A plus of 1/8 - what is the proportion (of the total)?".
The way of doing it; in detail:
You should add 1/8 to 1, □ makes 1 1/8.
You should say: "What is 1/8 of <1> 1/8?", makes its 1/9.
You should say: "1/8 is the plus, 1/9 is the proportion (of the total)".
To let you check it out; in detail:
you should subtract 1/9 from 1; Remainder: [5/6] 1/30 1/45.
The number 5/6 1/30 1/45 in detail:
Your 1/8 (is) □ 1/9. You should add it (the 1/9) to her (the 5/6 1/30 1/45), make 1 again.
When you are told: "A plus of 1/9 - what is the proportion (of the total)?".
The way of doing it; in detail:
You should add 1/9 [to 1], □ makes 1 1/9.
You should say: "What is 1/9 of 1 1/9?", makes its 1/10.
You should say: "1/9 is the plus, 1/10 is the proportion (of the total)".
To let you check it out; in detail:
you should subtract 1/10 from <1>; Remainder: 5/6 1/1 [5].
The number 5/6 1/15 in detail:
Your 1/9 (is) □ 1/10. You shall give it (the 1/10) to her (the 5/6 1/15) a
Government year 2, 3rd month of the Achet of King Alexander -LHG-, son of Alexander -LHG, the god. The carpenter of the house of Amun Petechonsis, son of Tjaou-achi, his mother is Esthephenis, speaks to the woman Taesis, daughter of Petamenophis, her mother is Esortais: “I made you my wife. I gave you 2 silver, makes 10 stater, makes 2 silver again
as your wives [gave]. And I will give you 6 baked breads a day, 1 (pound) silver, 2 kites, makes 6 staters, again makes 1 (pound) silver, 2 kites for your clothes a year (as well as) 2 jugs of Tegem oil every month, makes a total of every year "Again" 24 jugs of Tegem oil as your alimentation, which I will give you every year. When I'm going to fire you as a woman and hate you and choose another woman over you
you, then I will give ⸢dir⸣ 10 (pounds) silver, makes 50 staters, again makes ⸢10⸣ (pounds) silver. My eldest son is the eldest son (and) is the owner of everything and everyone that belongs to me and what I (still) will acquire in terms of house, field, income, servant, servant, silver, copper, clothing, cow, Donkeys, cattle and every household item. And I will give you this alimentation written above every year. It is your proxy who you authorized
Regarding the backwardness of your ⸢Alimen⸣tation, which will be ⸢ my charge ’, and I will give it to you annually, compulsorily, without delay, without being with you in any matter in the world to litigate. Written (by) Psammetich-sa-neithes, son of Osoreris.
Reign 3, month 1, Schemu of King Alexander, son of Alexander the god. Mrs. Tetenephotes, the (daughter) of Teos, her mother Tates said to Mrs. Taminis, the (daughter) of Haes, her mother Teteharpochrates: You have satisfied my heart with the money for my house, which has been built and covered as well as his court, which is in the northern district of Thebes, in the "house of the cow". Its border neighbors are:
South: The house of Collouthes, son of Pasomtous, the porter who is in the possession of the box (?) Maker of the temple of Amun Paibis, son of Tjaou-n-achi and the same-titled Petechonsis, son of Tjaou- n-achi, is where the street is between them (= the two houses); North: The house of Collouthes, son of Pamonnasis and the house of Thotroisis, son of Hor-pa-neb; West: The house of Pa-user, son of Collouthes and the house of Peteharpres, son of Psammetichus; East: The house of Petemestous,
son of Pchorchonsis, and the house of Paibis, son of Peteharpres; If the border neighbors of the entire house, of which I make 1 1/2 Bodenellen, makes 150 square cells, again makes 1 1/2 Bodenellen to the pastophores of Amenophis in the west of Thebes, Petenephotes, son of Parates and the same-titled Thotroisis, son of Parates two people, my children, 2/3 1/12 floor spaces each, makes 75 square cells, again makes 2/3 1/12 floor spaces
per person (lit. for one) (3) by giving (4) In the reign of 6, month 1, Achet des Philippos had issued them with a certificate of payment of money. I have given you this house above, apart from these 1 1/2 floor spaces above, makes 150 square cells, again makes 1 1/2 floor spaces, which I the above Petenephotes, son of Parates, and Thotroisis, son of Parates, in the above house have given. It is yours; it is your house. You have satisfied my heart with his money except for the 1/10 for the clerks and representatives of Thebes.
I have nothing in the world at his expense. Not any person in the world, including me (not), will be able to dispose of it except you, from now on. The one who will come to you because of him - I'll let him be away from you. And I'll let it be (legally) clean for you of every court document and thing in the world. Yours are his judgments in every house they are in. Every document that has been issued about it and every document that has been drawn up for me about it - they are yours along with their legal entitlement. Yours is what I am entitled to do in their name. The oath
(or) the evidence that will be given to you in court on behalf of the legal title of the above deed I have given you to get me to take it - I will do it. Yours is the above house along with everything that belongs to me and what I will acquire. And you will give 5 silver (deben), make 25 stater, again make 5 silver (deben) for my embalming and my burial. It wrote: Petemestous, son of Horos.
The father of God (and) prophet of Amun-Re, the king of gods, (and) prophet of Osiris, ruler of eternity, Inaros, (son of) Petemestous, son of Herisenef, his mother Gega, by being a witness ( for): year of reign 3, month 1, Schemu of King Alexander, son of Alexander. Mrs. Tetenephotes, the (daughter) of Teos, her mother Tates said to Mrs. Taminis, the (daughter) of Haes, her mother Teteharpochrates: You have satisfied my heart with the money for my house, which has been built and covered as well as his court, which is in the northern district of Thebes, in the "house of the cow". His border neighbors are:
South: The house of Collouthes, son of Pasomtous, the porter who is in the possession of the box (?) Maker of the temple of Amun Paibis, son of Tjaou-n-achi and the same-titled Petechonsis, son of Tjaou- n-achi, is where the street is between them (= the two houses); North: The house of Collouthes, son of Pamonnasis and the house of Thotroisis, son of Hor-pa-neb; West: The house of Pa-user, son of Collouthes and the house of Peteharpres, son of Psammetichus; East: The house of Petemestous, son of Pchorchonsis, and the house of Paibis,
(son of) Peteharpres; If the border neighbors of the entire house, of which I make 1 1/2 Bodenellen, makes 150 square cells, again makes 1 1/2 Bodenellen to the pastophores of Amenophis in the west of Thebes, Petenephotes, son of Parates and the same-titled Thotroisis, son of Parates two people, my children, 2/3 1/12 floor spaces each, makes 75 square cells, in turn makes 2/3 1/12 floor spaces per person (lit.for one) by giving them about it in the government year 6, (10) Month 1, Acheth des Philippos (9) issued a certificate of payment of money.
I gave you the above house, apart from the above 1 1/2 floor spaces, makes 150 square cells, again makes 1 1/2 floor spaces, which I {you} the above Petenephotes, (son of) Parates, and Thotroisis , Son of Parates, in the house above. It is yours; it is your house. You have satisfied my heart with his money except for the 1/10 for the clerks and representatives of Thebes. I have nothing in the world at his expense. Not
any person in the world, including me (not), will (10) be able (11) to dispose of it (11) except you, from now on. The one who will come to you because of him - I'll let him be away from you. And I'll let it be (legally) clean for you of every court document and thing in the world. Yours are his judgments in every house they are in. Every document that has been issued about it and every document that has been drawn up for me about it - they are yours along with their legal entitlement. Yours is what I am entitled to do in their name. The oath (or) evidence that will be imposed on you
in court on behalf of the legal title of the above document I have given you, (12) to cause me to perform it - I'll do it. Yours is the above house along with everything that belongs to me and what I will acquire. And you will give 5 silver (deben), make 25 stater, again make 5 silver (deben) for my embalming and my burial. write this
..., son of Achoapis, it is who says:
See, several letters have been sent to the decree writer.
You didn't let me write on one of them. It seems to me
that your intention is not to look at me at all
after you have not written to me on my matter.
You did not write to me about the things that
concern the Holy of Holies (rto.6), (rto.7) about which I wrote you
those here (in the ) Assyrian city. The reign year 7 came,
month 1, Peret (and) three priests of Horus from Chemmis came here.
They met with me (and) talked to me about the things
concerning the temple of Chemmis, which is in the
holy of holies of the temple of Tehne. I told them
what is happening with regard to said things. They went to
Chemmis to meet with the Lesonis of Horus von Chemmis and
the priests (red. 14). (rto.15) The priests wrote to me about the
said (rto.15) things. (rto. 16) Again they wrote to the priests about them.
A letter was sent from the priests (rto.18) also (rto.17) to the priests
of the Astarte about them, saying: 'I have (rto.19) with ... (rto. 18) met.
May one write to the temple of Tehne! '
Phimenis, son of Achoapis, the priest of Horus of Chemmis, came
to the south to meet you, the decree writer, and the priests.
If the decree writer likes,
one may order that he learns what is happening with the
said things (rto.23). (rto.24) May he go to Per-Gereg-Neith.
May someone go with him. May <she> (rto.26) look at the steles (rto.25)
that are there. May one command
nothing to fail him. Do not be negligent
[in this]. May I be ordered to have someone write to me
about the things that are supposed to happen to the things that are here. If
you come behind him, you should write to me (rto.31) about it (rto.30).
May people write to me about my
occasion and the things you command me.
Don't let this god be outside his city!
May it come to that that one says: 'The temple of the
Assyrian (vso.2) city (vso.3) is connected with the temple
of Tehne.' It is bad to let him be half of his place (vso.4) except (vso.5). □
May be ordered to cause
to have the matter of Osor-cha, the
ner, (vso.6) settled. (vso.7) Don't let one of his things fail and
his people! The priests of the Astarte showed (vso.9) a lot (vso.8) commitment
when the priests of Horus von Chemmis wrote to them.
May the priests of the Astarte realize that
you are doing the work on the thing they write about
in the way of the work you did for me and who {here} work
that has been done for the cause that concerns the holy of holies.
May Inaros, son of Soknuchis (?) greet,
the prophet of Isis, and his brothers. May one
greet the priests together (vso.15). (vso.16) Sobek, the lord of Bachu will
let me hit you without harm. It wrote: the servant
..., son of Achoapis, in reign 8, month 4, Peret, day 5.
To Osor-cha □ the decree writer
To Achoapis [... ... ...]
I "greet" you
before Sobek. There is a letter
that I wrote to the Plant Chief.
May he read it! ⸢May⸣
one act according to every thing about which ⸢i
written⸣ to the field supervisor!
One has taken an oath ⸢the people⸣
the city to assign them to ⸢a⸣n
18 people regarding the "tax".
Don't let it be changed, ⸢and⸣ me
can write to ⸢Teos, the field chief⸣
in the matter of my business
I have 10 (Aruras) Akerland
in the ⸣domain of Sobek⸣.
A farmer to be
Pemsais, called ⸢Son of? ...? ⸣,
looks for "dispute" for them.
May one order that ⸢ cause ⸣
that one writes to Peteesis,
the son of Peeus as well
(to) the Lesonis of Sobek with the words⸣:
"Don't let that
a farmer (or else) anyone on the earth⸣ objects
against arable land that belongs to the ⸢Osor-cha⸣!
I will not ask⸣
about mine ⸢? In which? ...? ⸣,
that the farmman will ⸣make⸢ here,
to give protection⸣
Teos, ⸢the field chief
You were drunk ⸢before Sobek⸣.
May he be very protected
in front of them.
What one does ⸢for me in⸣
my "matter",
that will not "get lost".
The said man suffers from
leprosy. If he
If he goes to Hermopolis, then do not allow
that one listens to one's voice (in) any that⸣,
so that ⸢ he doesn’t? Hit / infected? .⸣
I came here
with a freight wage ⸢as well as⸣
this jug ⸢for? ...? ⸣
May one write Peteesis
because of the fields. This is an "important" thing.
Written by servant ⸢Osor-cha⸣,
(son of) Achoapis (in) year 9, 1st (month) ⸢des? Peret ?, (day) 1⸣.
An □□□ ⸢Acho⸣ [apis]
Osor-cha, son of Achoapis, is the one who says:
The year is good for you! Your
year be good! Like for you
Thoth, the two times great, Lord of Hermopolis (and) Sobek⸣,
Mr. von Bachu open a good year.
I'm sprinkling water (and)
do the "blessings" for the field chief
before Sobek. He will let it last
the house of the landlord Teos
⸢in⸣ the favor of Pharaoh -LHG-
⸢i⸣n eternity. I had
⸢10 (Aruras) arable land⸣. I have it
Trimmed [from] wood. I
Do not "cultivate" any arable land in the domain
Des Sobek⸣ besides them. Pemsais,
[Son of] Harsiese, the peasant of Sobek, went to them (the 10 Aruras),
to edit for a next year.
I have (already) said it to the Lesonis Horos.
He wrote to leave them to ⸢mi⸣r,
(already) last year. I ordered
the said fields. Then the day happened? ...?
in turn to them. May I be
Show "the favor"! May one order
to get people to write to Peteesis, son of Peeus
and (also to) the Lesonis des Sobek, so as not to
to allow <man> to lay claim to my 10 (Aruras) farmland! May
it happened that it was given to me
from the emmer of the field chief
I gave it to the head of the field
(already) said earlier that some
Boys who are here are the ones who cause trouble (?) ⸣.
I (already) wear it
written the field chief. May one (also) write Peteesis,
the son of Peeus and the authorized representative with the words:
"Never mind the divine property of Sobek
and the seed except
to what of Osor-cha will say 'Do it!'.
I am a servant of the field chief. He shouldn't
⸢not allow the ⸣ field chief to be rebuked
(to) everything that I will do. This is also Art
the God and
'further to equip the pharaoh'.
When you⸣ the seed and the fields
those ’who don’t give emmer from it,
then don't let it be added to the kind
⸢in which⸣ they ran away to prevent? I serving? ⸣
for Sobek with them. I am the one
knows the one among them who will understand how to go about his business.
I will make "the heart" of the head of the field happy
(with) what they will do. Written by the servant Osor-⸢cha⸣,
(son of) Achoapis in the year 10, 1st (month) of Achet, (day) 1st
This is the way
not to let lassenthe field chief⸣ be inactive towards us again.
To Phatres, the reading priest.
The year is good for you! Your
year be good! I am
came here with ponches,
Son of Teos, the field chief, (and) with ponches
to the reading priest. Since I
I came before the reading priest,
I don't have it (anymore) in a word
9. Written of my matter. For me (so far also in this regard)
did nothing for you. I had
⸢10⸣ (Aruren) arable land in the domain of Sobek.
A farmer ⸢ seeks a quarrel over them.
Well, I was told, "He's not working."
May this favor be shown to me!
May (I) serve ⸢Sobek⸣,
in that my heart is "happy" because of
of the field chief. Do you take (me about)
my 10 (Aruras) farmland while I stand
above the Sobek between
all people who are in the "city". At
Sobek! The man in question, it is (but)
who is the enemy of Thene. May
man to Peteesis, son of Peeus⸣, to write⸢,
so ​​as not to allow yourself to be a farmer
(or otherwise) anyone in the world attacks my ⸢10 (Aruras) Acker A.
Be careful!
This is an important matter! Do you give (perhaps?)
their harvest tax in the house of the landlord?
May this favor be shown to me!
May (I) the price (s) before
Perform Sobek while my heart is happy.
Written by the servant Osor-cha, ⸢ (son of) Achoapis⸣
(in) year 10, 1st (month) of Acheth, (day) 1. May God be gracious,
(then) I will come to town
will come south, will
bring a good mug
(and) will induce that one other
Teos, who will bring the landlord. Written by the servant.
⸢An □□□ Pꜣ-ḥtr? For your attention? ⸣
Reign 16, month 2, Acheth of King Ptolemy. The woman Taibis, the (daughter) of Petenephotes, her mother Ti-mehi, to the embalmer of the baboon Pelaias, son of Thotortaios, his mother Tawat (?) Enchemet said: It is with you at my expense when I have my house build, which forms the west of your house and which is in the northern district of Thebes in the "house of the cow". His border neighbors: South: The courtyard of the house
of Petenephotes, son of Iret-redj, my father. Its north: The house of Mrs. Tetenephotes, the (daughter) of Teos, the Choachytin, with the royal road between them. His east: Your house, to which the walls of my house connect from the south (up to) the north, your wall serving as a retaining wall for me, whereby I will not give a beam to it. His west: The house of the teacher of the Amun domain Patous, son of Horos, and the house of Kalasiris of the Amun domain
Teos, son of Collouthes, makes two houses with the royal road between them. A total of. And I am building my house from my southern wall to my northern wall on your wall, whereby I will not put any wood in it except the boards of the door that were (already) in it before. And it will serve as a retaining wall for me, although I will not put any wood in it. And I'll lay my beams from the south (to the) north.
If I cover the basement of my house and want to build it higher, then I will build on the walls mentioned above on the wall of your house, which will serve as a retaining wall. And I will leave the light shaft at your two windows the length of a brick from the bricks that are built in your house at your windows.
And I will build your wall south and north of them. And I'll cover them from south to north. And your wall will serve as an upper retaining wall for me except for the windows, and I will not put any wood in it. If I back off not to act according to all of the above, I will give you 5 silver (deben), makes 25 stater, again makes 5 silver (deben). by having a claim on me that I act again according to each of the above words, If you prevent me
from building my house, I will act according to each of the above words and build my house without giving you a well leave without any objection. It wrote: Esminis, son of Paibis.
my house by not leaving you a light shaft.
The woman Taibis, the (daughter) of Petenephotes, her mother Ti-mehi, to the embalmer of the
baboon Pelaias, son of Thotortaios, his mother Tawat (?) Enchemet said: □ It is with you my burdens,
[when I] build my house, which forms the west of your house and which is in the
[northern] (4) district (5) [of Thebes] in the "house of the cow". □ His border neighbors: South: ...
[The ho] f des Petenephotes, son of Iret-redj, my father. □ His north: The house of the woman
[Tetenephotes,] the (daughter) of Teos, □ the Choachytin, in which the □ royal road is between them.
[His east:] Your house, □ to which my walls □ of my house □ (from) the south
[(to) the north] connect, in that your wall serves as a retaining wall, □ where I do not
[Place bars] (9) will. (10) His west: The [house of the teacher of the Amun domain, Patous, son of Horos, and] the house of Kalasiris of the Amun domain
[Teos, son of Collouthes, makes two houses with the royal road] between them. A total of. And I
[build my house from my southern wall to my northern wall on your wall] r, whereby I will not put wood
[in it] (12) (13) [except the boards of the door, i ] Who were (already) in her before.
[And it will serve as a retaining wall for me, wherein I] will not put wood in it.
[And I will lay my beams from the south (up to) the north.] When I cover the
[under] (15) floor (16) [of my house] (15) (16) [and] higher build [wil] l,
[then I will build on my walls mentioned above on the wall of your] house, which will serve as a retaining wall for me.
[And I will leave the light shaft by] your two windows the length
[of a brick of the bricks that are] [built] by your windows [in] your house (18).
[And I will build your wall south and north of them. And I
[will cover them from south to north. And your wall] will serve as an upper retaining wall
[except for the windows, where I will not [put] wood in them.
[If I withdraw to not act according to all of the above, I will give you 5 silver (deben), makes] 25 stater, again makes 5 silver (deben), [give].
[by making a claim to me that I act again according to each of the above words, If you prevent me from] building
[my house] (24), (25) [I will according to you act and build every word above]
year of reign 3, month 3, Acheth of King Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy
maios. Amun-Re, Lord of Ba-djed, the great god, (and) Chons-Thoth, Lord of Ba-djed, the great god, (and) the Aries, the great god, (and) the
great ( 2) Gods (3) of Naukratis, giving life (and) giving life to Shem-amenophis, son of Harpbeki, his mother Es-
neb-tesch, the Chons-Thoth, the great god, and those of the city of Aries from reign 2, month 4, Schemu
through reign 3, month 3, Achet, (4). (5) The Wollschläger (?) Of Naukratis put up a stele for him when Oaphres, son of
Nechtchonsis Lesonis, was. Schem-amenophis, son of Harpbeki made no claims (in relation to) the agent's money for
wool (or) anything in the world. He left the Milesian wool to feed the ram.
He built a house of purity and a house of refreshment in summer. He paid the wool clubs (?)
on the dates of the amount that fell to them (8). (9) He had the rams brought to their homes.
He had soda brought to the pharmacy. He has the security of the ram of Amun-Re, the lord of Ba-djed, the great god,
(and of) Chons-Thoth, the lord of Ba-djed, the great god, (and the) ram, of the great God. He (the ram) protected Shem-amenophis, son of Harpbeki,
his mother Es-neb-tesh, because of the benefits he did for the ram of Naukratis (and) the
great gods of Naukratis in order to put it in the heart of those who will come after him, (likewise) to do the benevolent,
the Shem-amenophis, son of Harpbeki, his mother Es-neb-tesch, for whom the (se) Stele was erected, has done.
Year of reign 4, month 1, Peret of the king {son of} Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy. The pastophore of Amun of Luxor in the west of Thebes Amenothes, son of Pathotes, his mother Ta-meti said to Frau Taues, daughter of P-merel, her mother Tabis:
I have dismissed you as a wife. I am far from you in terms of wifes rights. It is I who said to you: "Take a (different) husband". I will not be able to stand in the way of any house you will go to (3) to take a husband (2) into it.
I have nothing in the world to your detriment in the name of today's wife (s) from now on, compulsorily, without delay (and) without any objection. It wrote: Totoes, son of Esminis.
Reign 16, month 3, Achet (the) king
Ptolemaios, (son of) Ptolemaio
s. It is Pagonis, son of Pnouphis
, who says to Thoteus, son of Pahyris: You have paid me in full
(with) the portion of baking soda, the piece (?) Of the embalming
and all things, concerning the
embalming of the Pa-user, your
son, (7). (8) And I prepare him (with) medicines,
and I give him (10) ↑ up to the 72nd day ↑ (9) in the hand of your
choachyte, by not guilty
of the embalmers is in him without
letting any accusation in the world reach you (11) (12) in his name.
If I withdraw in order not to act for you
according to each of the above, I will give you two silver (deben),
make ten stater, make two silver (deben) again, give, compulsorily, without seams
(and) without any objection. It wrote: Amenothes, son of Peteminis, at the behest
of the above Pagonis, (son of) Pnouphis (in) reign 16, month 3, Achet
{month 3, Achet}, (day) 4.
The (number of) people who were written about in the 22nd year of government to be brought to the south: 400 people
Those who were (actually) brought to the south by them in the {Epiphi} <Phamenoth>: 385 people
Difference (to the 400): 15 (people) [marking]
The people who left (again from the south): the specification:
up to the 30th Mechir: 322 people
(im) Phamenoth: 30 (people)
(results) 352 people [marking]
Those brought (in turn) to the south in the {Phamenoth} <Pharmouthi>: 269 people
Difference (to the returned 352 :): 83 people; (Difference to the 400 :) 98 people [marker]
Those who left (again from the south) by the 30th Pachon: 130 (people)
(up to) 10. Payni: 15 (people)
(gives) 145 (people); (Difference to the 400 :) 243 (people)
By the 11th Payni, 157 people left the Fayyum Gau
It is ... that will happen to the headmaster again. (?) One slept on the sand
without a house. You can't find woven tents (?). . . . . the people (?)
the rooms and tents (?) of the Harmais, the representative ... with (?) the people
of the Gaus. They went away. There is no accommodation and no room except for 30
out of 385 (required?) Rooms. They withheld (?) 355 (rooms) from me.
5 tents (?) Were brought to the city, out of 20 (required?) Tents (?),
difference: 15. People couldn't find accommodation because again there was no woven fabric
Tent (?) Was there.
Reign 23, month 1 of the Schemu season, of King Ptolemy II,
son of Ptolemy I, and his son Ptolemy.
Wording of the oath, which the singer Hema,
[the son of] Pamneuis is supposed to take: At the
fate of King Ptolemy II.
, son of Ptolemy I, and his son Ptolemy as well as
Arsinoë II. Philadelphos and the appearing (i.e. deceased) fathers
and the Theoi Adelphoi! I will bring the Soknebtynis harp
, which is in my hand, to Tebtynis
until the 23rd year, month 2 of the Schemu season, the last day of the month. I will take them to the Temple of Soknebtynis
by not having them changed. And I will give it into the hands of the priests
so that it is intact and undamaged. If I truly take the oath
, the fate of the king will bless me. If I
swear the oath, I am under the king's punishment
. Written by Pelaias (?), Son of Herieus, in the 23rd year of reign, month 1 of the Schemu season, 23rd day at the behest of Hema,
son of Pamneuis.
Government year 28, Choiak [...
up to the year of reign 29: Petehyris, son of Petehyris [...
... [...
Day 25: 2 (?) (Hin) wine. Its division: [...
The priests: 1 (Hin wine). A total of (?) [...
The district clerks who are in custody (?). A total of (?) [...
Day 26: It was received. . . [...
The ... [...
The prophets. . [...
Wine [...] and its ... [...
gives [...] ... [...
each (?) ... 1 (Deben) real silver (?). . . [...
Total: 70 + x
The clerks and the district clerks: 1 silver (deben), 6 kite [...
Day 25: The work ... [...
by Nikophilos (?) [...
Hesieus, son of Ekysis, son of Harthotes,. . [...
Day 27: The ... the people ... [...
Day 1: Apollos, son (?) Of ... [...
gives 11 silver (deben) and 8 kites. A total of 72 [...
30 1/4 (?) From 4 kite silver (deben) for work [...
100 (measure) emmer (?) And 4 (deben) real silver, in detail: Onnophris with his. [...
The other work to complete these 4 silver (deben) and 2 (kiting), in detail [...
Sois, the prophet of Osiris. One received through his [...
Hasies, son of Ekysis, son of Harpbeki [...]. . .
After that: 1 (Deben) real silver and. . Kite [...]. . Total: 70+ [x]
gives 12 (deben) real silver [... total] 72.
[...] me, it is. "The moment he said it, Naneferkasokar removed the jar. . . . .
[...]. . . . . . . King. . . my sending out his nobles to hear his voice.
[...]. . . . Pharaoh of the team of the Great of Babel, because you had a force camped
[...] to do what he wants with them, the two teams (?). The [great] saw [the] face of his noble ones, while they had grasped the hand
[...] The great sent him to all his. . . and gentlemen who were with him, greeting him. The great one left
[...] in front of him until he rose (lit. 'until his hour of rising'), <where> the leaders of the district of Babel took him to every place . . . . .
[...] Then came the 28th day of the fourth month of the Peret season. Naneferkasokar shaved. He took first-class clothes (= mourning clothes?) From
[...]. . . . the tall one sees him laughing. Naneferkasokar won't be able to laugh again. He let
[...]. Re can ask about it. He will not attack it. "The great one said to him:" By Baal!
[...] "My great Lord! Oh may he have the lifetime of Re! They really happen, the things of which you say: 'Do
[.. .].. We have put on women's clothes. However, we do the craft of war. " To him said
[...] before me. "Then Naneferkasokar said to him:" If the great man finds no rebuke in me and not
[...] in the Kind of a big room (?). Naneferkasokar said: "May the great one take an oath that I will not be punished!"
[...] I [have not] seen a person who is stronger than me. "The moment he said it, the great man's face blushed.
[...].. Naneferkasokar said: "My great Lord! Oh may he have the lifetime of Re! In the third month of the Achet season from the first to the last day, the days
[...] with (?) His wife there. It is so that the first month of the Achet season is the beginning of the year for the Egyptians, corresponding to the first month of the Peret season, which is the beginning of the year
... Petu] bastis. . . . . . went to heaven on them. One was very strong in the heart of every person in Egypt.
[...] the temples of the gods on them. It is customary not to make burnt offerings or libations on the same days.
[... We do not do anything] work on them. We do not do any work on them, although (?) It happens all over Egypt.
[...]. . . . . Sign . . . . . . . big lance. It is our (?) Wtb who
[...] their army commanders until one has found the strongest among them, the one who is the strongest of them. One does not use
[...]. before Pharaoh. A wreath will be given and possession of the possessions of
[...] Necho, son of Tefnachte. . . the priest of courage, the mistress of Wgy, in the Gau of Thebes, who
[...]. . I like them. They sailed south to Syene. There came a moment when heaven became
[...] under this army, which had come as a unit. We wailed (?) Every hour (?) In front of the big brothers
[...] because they were more numerous than him in troops. At the moment when Naneferkasokar had finished the speech,
[...] behind ꜣrsnꜣy. Bring Snsg and ꜣḳlꜣw. [Man]
[bring ...]. Bring Msms ⸢und⸣ Grmyty, make 14 people, from the satraps
[...] ⸢3000 (?) ⸣, who take ḳsn [from] first-class purple. You will take hmsp and
[...] daily. The tall one went to his house, <where> his face was very tired. His nobles (also) went to themselves
[...]. . . Is he the one stronger than the entire Region of Babel? And they cursed him
The directory of the five changing stars: Saturn (lit.'Horus the Taurus'), that is the star
of Re. Mars (lit.'Red Horus'), that is the star of Miysis.
Mercury, that is the star of Thoth. Venus (lit.'Morning God '), that is (the star of)
Harsiesis. Jupiter (lit.'Horus the merchant '), that is the star of Amun.
The naming of the five moving stars with all gods
to make the complete naming. The list of the stars, which
are distributed over the twelve months. In detail: Mechir: the ram. Phamenoth: the bull.
Pharmouthi: the twins. Pachon: the cancer.
Payni: the lion. Epiphi: the virgin (lit. 'noble lady').
Mesori: the scales (lit.'Horizon '). Thoth: the scorpion.
Phaophi: [[the shooter]]. [[Hathyr]]: the ibex (lit. 'goat face').
Choiak: der Wassermann (lit. 'the prince (?) Of water').
Tybi: the fish.
Sum of the stars of the twelve months, (each) one (?)
per month.
It is Sokeus, the son of Pabis, the man of the treasury, who
speaks before Soknebtynis, the great god: My great Lord, oh Soknebtynis!
I am your servant! Don't throw me aside (?)! I am attacked
. Don't throw me on the street!
My bad things that happened to me,
Is it a god doing them to me? Is it Soknebtynis?
Is it someone because of my father?
Is it someone because of my mother?
Is it Marres the Elder, son of Pabis?
Is it Marres the Younger, son of Pabis?
Is it Pais, son of Imhotep?
Is it Marres, son of Imhotep?
Is it someone who belongs to Pais son of Imhotep?
Is it someone who belongs to my house?
Is it because of the coffin that is with me
that my bad things are done to me?
Should I hand it over to my people?
Is it because of the funeral that you do it?
My children by the northern house of Sobek,
should I leave <she> there?
Is Marres, son of Sokeus, well and is there any place to go?
Phanesis the Elder, son of Pabis, is he well?
Are his children and wife also doing well?
Is there a place they can go to? (v.1) Phanesis the Younger, son of Nechthyris, is he well? (v.2) Are his children well? (v.3) Is Ubastetis, daughter of Petheus, well? (v.4) Is there a place they can go to? (v.5) Is my house also doing well? (v.6) My good fortune, it is before Soknebtynis.
Reign 3, month 1, Achet of King Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy, son of Pto [lem] aios, and Queen Berenike, the avenger of perdition. Ms. Taapis, daughter of Kererus, her mother Semset
said to Ms. Tastis, daughter of Haronnophris, her mother Esoeris: I litigated you before the judges because of this house, which is in the central district of Elephantine, and this household item (and) this silver necklace.
The judges have ruled against me in this regard. I am far from you in relation to this [named] house that was sold to Ms. Ti-gua and these household items (and) this necklace. I have
in their name (3) nothing (4) in the world to bring against you from today for every year until forever. The one who will come to you because of them, in my name (or) in the name of any person in the world (or) in the name of the consent you have given to the document issued for Ti-gua regarding the
named ( 4) house was made - (5) I will keep him away from you; and (from) the necklace (and) the household items, which they (sg.) to my (?) funeral share (?) the (?) ?? has given. You have fulfilled her legal claim, her judgment and her oath
before Khnum (5). (6) I have no cause in the world to bring up against you on their behalf. It is your agent who is empowered with respect to any matter that he wishes to negotiate with me on behalf of any of the above. And I do it at his command, compulsorily,
without delay, without any objection. Mrs. Ti-gua, daughter of Patous, who was given this house above, is entitled to Tastis, daughter of Haronnophris, because of this deed of money payment (and) clearance deed, in which Tastis said:
I will be Taapis, daughter of Kererus, her let do. I will do it for Mrs. Ti-gua, daughter of Patou. It wrote: Imouthes, son of Amenothes.
Government year 1 [6 (?), Phamenoth (?)], Of King Ptolemaios (III.), Son of Ptolemaios (II.), And Arsinoe (II.), The Theoi Adelphoi, and the priest of Alexander [ , the Theoi] <Adelphoi> and the Theoi [Euergetai ...]
The scribe of the arsinoitic Gaus Phanesis, son of ..., his mother is ..., spoke to Mrs. Tetosiris, called Tasis, the daughter of the horoscope ... Harpsenesis, her mother is [...] Given [...] [...]
72, the (Oipe counted to) 40 (Hin) - [gives 4] 8 [barley], gives 72 Emmer, the (Oipe counted to) 40 (Hin) , again - (and) 2 Silberdeben 4 Kite - gives 2 Silberdeben [. . .] Kite, makes 2 silver debbles 4 kite - from the pieces of the treasure house of Ptah, again full, for your upkeep every year in the house that [you want.] It is you who is authorized [with regard to] the arrears of yours [Maintenance ...] [...]
to afford it to me, you shall afford it to me in [the house] where [the] judges are. Written by Petesuchus, son of Petesokonopis.
Reign 17, month 2 of the Peret season (Mechir) of Pharaoh Ptolemaios III, son of Ptolemaios II and Arsinoë II, the Theoi Adelphoi, as Menneas, son of Menoitios, priest of Alexander, the Theoi Adelphoi and the Theoi Euergetai was and when Berenike, daughter of Adaios Kanephore was before Arsinoe Philadelphos. The merchant and servant of Min Imouthes, son of Spemminis, his mother is Senthoteus, spoke to the wife of Tathatres the Elder, daughter of Kelebinis, her mother is Taoreus. I made you a woman. The children you will bear me own everything that belongs to me, as well as that which I will create: fields, temples, villages, houses, courtyards, fields, walls, gardens, servants, servants,
all cattle , all documents⸣ and every thing of a free man of mine. It belongs to the children you will bear for me. I will not be able to take anything away from it to give to other children or to anyone in the world except for the children you will bear for me. And I give you Emmer: 72, the (Oipe) for 40 Hin, results in barley: 48, the (Oipe) at 40 Hin, (results) Emmer: 72, the (Oipe) at 40 Hin in turn; 2 silver 4 kites, results in 12 staters, again results in 2 silver 4 kites; ⸢Nḥḥ-Öl⸣: 24 Hin and tgm-Öl 24 Hin, results in. . . 48 to make your yearly upkeep. It is you who are authorized with regard to the arrears of their subsistence, which will be borne by me every month and year. And I'll give it to you wherever you want If I release you as a wife, I will give you 10 silver, gives 50 stater, again gives 10 silver, and 400 emmer, the (Oipe) for 40 Hin. If I prefer one
other woman to you, I will give you 10 silver, results in 50 stater, again results in 10 silver, and 400 emmer, the (Oipe) of 40 Hin, results in a total of 20 silver, results in 100 stater, results in turn 20 silver, as well as 800 emmer, the (Oipe) to 40 Hin, [results in barley:] 533 1/3, again results in 800 Emmer, the (Oipe) to 40 Hin. Whereby the merchant and servant of Min Spemminis, son of Imouthes, his mother is Getir, - (i.e.) his father - stood there and said: Receive the certificate of the wife and the maintenance of 20 silver, which are mentioned above, from the hand of the merchant and servant of Min Imouthes, son of Spemminis, his mother is the Senthoteus, my above-mentioned eldest son, in order to arrange that he acts according to all of the above. My heart is satisfied with it. Written by Herieus, son of Pꜣ-wꜣḥ-mw.
Reign 17, month 3, Schemu of King Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy and Arsinoe, the sibling gods, as Menneas, son of Menoitius, priest of Alexander, the sibling gods and the benevolent gods, as Berenike, the (daughter) of Adaios, Kanephore before Arsinoe, the brother-loving one. The pastophore of Amenhotep in west Thebes Pnouphis, son of Psenenteris, his mother Timounis, said to the pastophore of Amenhotep in west Thebes Thotsytmis, son of Pnouphis, his mother Taues:
I shared with you (and) you have shared with me the things of Patemis, son of Pnouphis, his mother Taues, your brother, the younger brother of Psenenteris, son of Pnouphis, my father, the Psenenteris, son of Pnouphis, my father, had bought from him by has previously issued him a certificate about it, while Psenenteris, son of Pnouphis, my father, has issued you a certificate for her half. The list of half that fell to you of the things in the Djeme necropolis: Amenothes the Blessed and Esminis who is there with him and Senamunis who is there with him and every person who is with them; The grave
of Belles, the pastophore of Djeme, and every person who is with him; Mr. Pachois, the blessed, the weaver of linen, and the stranger who is there with him, and every person who is with them; The tomb of Pamonthes, the byssus-weaver, the tomb of Pi-mehi, the byssos-weaver, and every person who is with them; The Lord Phiminis of the people of Luxor and everyone who is with him; Lord Panas, the Blessed, and every person who is with him; and the gods (= mummies) of Peteamunis and every person who is with him. They are yours I have nothing in the world to ask of you in their name
from now on. The one who will come to you on my behalf - I will keep him away from you by making a claim on me in relation to the legal claim of the deed my father issued you to fulfill her legal claim, in that half of the remaining things belong to you, which will prove to belong to Patemis, son of Pnouphis, your brother, my father's little brother, in the east and in the west, in that their part belongs to me, which is outside of your above places, that have come to you, with the places that have come to me (and) for which you have issued me a certificate in which I am entitled to you in relation to
the legal entitlement of the certificate of division that you gave me in the 17th month of government 3, have issued Schemu of the Eternal King, so that I may at all times fulfill her legal claim by being far from you in relation to your above places, whereby the wife Timounis, the (daughter) of Snachomneus, her mother Ta esis, his mother, said: Receive the certificate from the hand of Panouphis, son of Psenenteris, my eldest son above, that he may act according to each of the above. my heart is satisfied with it, in that I am entitled to him with regard to the legal claim of the money payment deed and the other deeds that Psenenteris, son of Panouphis, my father, issued to me in order to
give me his legal claim at any time (5) (6) by being far from you in relation to your above places without any objection. It wrote: Amenothes, son of Herieus.
[Government year 22, month 1, Acheth of King Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy] aios, and Arsinoe, the sibling gods, (and) the priest of Alexander and the sibling gods and the benevolent gods, Alexicrates, son of Theogenes, as Berenike, daughter of Kallianax, was Kanephore before Arsinoe, the brother-loving one. It was said by the god-sealer Teos, son of Pasis, his mother Tanas,
[to the woman ..., daughter of ..., her mother ...] You satisfied my heart with the money for everything belongs to me and what I will acquire; House, field, yard, property, wall, (fruit) garden, (wine) garden, supplies, donated money, donated rations, priestly income, silver, gold, copper, clothes, servants, servants, cows, donkeys, all small livestock , every document, every court document, every household item, every thing of a free man in
[the world.] [They are yours from now on. I have nothing in the world to bring up against you on their behalf. The one who will come to you because of you, I will let him be away from you. And I'll let them be (legally) clean for you on every court document and thing in the world. Yours is every document that has been [made] about them and every document that has been made to me about them and every document in whose name I am justified. They are yours and their legal claim. Yours is that by which I am justified in their name. The oath (or) the proof
[which will be placed on you to cause me to take it on their behalf, I will take it.] [I will not] do any thing in the world for anything about I have written to you above to any person in the world except (to) Pasis, my eldest son (and) your eldest son whom you gave birth to me, and (to) the male children you bear me will from now on, in that you have a claim on me from every document that I have issued to you and your legal claim, in that [you] have a claim on me from the sꜥnḫ certificate for 21 (?) silver (-deben) from Treasury of Ptah, full value, which I issued to you in the year of reign 22, month 1, Achet the king who lives forever, and their legal claim, a total of 2 documents, in which you
[have a claim on me from them and their legal claim . And I act for you according to each of the above words. It wrote: ..., son of ...]
Reign 3, month 1, Achet of King Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy, and Berenice, the benevolent gods, together with the priest of Alexander, the brother and sister gods and the benevolent gods who is in Alexandria,
together with the one who carries the basket of gold in front of Arsinoe, the brother-lover who is in Alexandria. It was said by the shepherd and servant of Horus of Edfu, the great God, the Lord of Heaven, Horos, son of Pabachtis, his mother Telilis to the wife Tatous, the (daughter) of Panetbeus, her mother Rempnophris:
O Daughter of Panetbeus, son of Pabachtis, my brother! I shared with you (and) you shared with me the fields of Pabachtis, son of Harabos, his mother Taratis, my father, the father of Panetbeus, son of Pabachtis, your father, which are in the southern district of the district of Edfu . Your directory is:
His 1 1/4 share from 3 1/2 shares of this island field, which lies on the sacrificial property of Horus of Edfu, the great God, the Lord of Heaven, on the "island of the scarab": his border neighbors: south: the field of Paleuis, son of Horos, son of Pasas; north: the field of Katytis, son of Pabachtis; east: the Nile;
west: the farmland of the Temple of Edfu; End; together with his 1 1/4 share from 3 1/2 shares of the other island field, his "companion": his border neighbors: south and north: the fields of Katytis, son of Pabachtis; east: the Nile; west: the farmland of the Temple of Edfu;
end; together with its 1 1/4 share from 3 1/2 shares of the high field, which is on the field of the highlands of Per-werem (?): its border neighbors: south and east: the fields of Paieus, son of Horos, son of Pasas and of Pasas, his brother; north: The field of Pamenches, son of Pete-ihi; to the west: the field of Pachois, son of Alilis;
end; together with his 1 1/4 share from 3 1/2 shares of the other field, his "companion": his border neighbors: south: the field of Katytis, son of Pabachtis; north: the field of Horos, son of Pachois; east: the field of Pachois, son of Petepnoutis; west: the mountains; End; together with its 1 1/4 share from 3 1/2 shares of the other field of olive trees:
its border neighbors: south: the field of Har-aken, son of Horos the elder; north: the field of Pachnumis, son of Paes; east: the field of Patous, son of Horos, son of Paleuis; west: the mountains; End of the border neighbors of all above fields, which make up 3 1/2 shares, of which Pabachtis, son of Harbelles owns 1 share, while I own
1 1/4 shares of them (8), (9) that of Patous , Son of Harabos bought by Pabachtis, son of Harabos, my father, the father of Panetbeus, son of Pabachtis, your father, owning 1 1/4 shares of them. The 1/4 of the one share of 4 shares of these 1 1/4 shares, which
come from these 3 1/2 above shares of the above fields, (9) goes to (10) you in the name of the share of Panetbeus, Son of Pabachtis, your father, in whose name I own the 1/4 of these 1 1/4 shares by Psenesis, son of Pabachtis, my little brother, who own 1/4 of these 1 1/4 shares by Telilis,
the (daughter) of Horos, {the (daughter)} <son of> Psentesous, who owns 1/4 of these 1 1/4 shares. I do not have a law to bring a judgment (or) anything in the world against you in the name of your 1/4 of these 1 1/4 shares that come from these 3 1/2 shares of the above fields as of today henceforth. Any person in the world who will come to you
because of this on my behalf - I will let them be away from you in relation to that. If I do not let him be away, I will forcibly let him be away without a hitch by being far from me in relation to my 1 1/4 shares out of these 3 1/2 shares above of the above fields I bought from Patous, son of Harabos,
and my 1/4 share of these 1 1/4 shares from these 3 1/2 shares above. It wrote: Paibis, son of Psomphis.
Reign 7, month 4, Schemu of King Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy and Berenice, the benevolent gods, when Ptolemy, son of Ptolemy, was the priest of Alexander and the sibling gods, the benevolent gods and the gods who loved their father,
when Arsinoe, daughter of Sosibios, was a gold basket-bearer before Arsinoe, the brother-loving one. The shepherd and servant of Horus of Edfu, who is attributed to the people of Philae, said Pabachtis, son of Paleuis, his mother Senamounis to the shepherd and servant of Horus by Edfu Pabachtis, son of Horpaese, his mother Rempnophris:
I am far from you with regard to your island field, which is on the sacrificial foundation of Horus of Edfu, <the> great God, the Lord of Heaven, on the tamarisk island in the southern district of the Gaues of Edfu (and) the 1 1 / 4 Schoinia is from south to north, for which I issued you a money payment certificate in the year of reign 7, month 4, Schemu of the eternal king loved by Isis, 1/3 of which belongs to the Pachois, son of Pabachtis, his mother Taleuis,
while Horos, son of Horpaese, his mother Tbelles, his other 1/3 belongs to you, while his other 1/3 belongs to you. The border neighbors of the entire field: South: The field of Pachois, son of Pabachtis. North: The field of Mrs. Tbokis, daughter of Paleuis, and her brothers, together with Senpmois, daughter of Pabachtis. East: The Nile. West: The Hochacker. End of the border neighbors of my island field above.
I have no legal title, judgment (or) anything in the world against you on his behalf, as of today. No one in the world will be able to dispose of it except you. Whoever comes to you for his sake to take him away from you (or) to take away (some) of it from you, saying: "It is not yours!", In my name (or) in the name of any person in the world, myself including,
whom I will keep away from you on this. If I do not keep him away, I will forcibly and without delays keep him away, and I will let him (= the field) be (legally) pure for you in relation to every thing in the world at any point in time, in which you have a claim on me With regard to the legal entitlement of this deed of money payment that I issued to you in the year of reign 7, month 4, Schemu of the Eternal King Beloved by Isis, as well as this deed of distance above, make two deeds, and I will give you their legal entitlement
at any time (6) comply, (7) compulsorily, without delays (and) without any objection. It wrote: Samoys, son of Psomphis.
[The] doorkeeper of the god-king Amun-Re, the great god, and scribe of the canal ↑ of Thebes ↑ Peteharmais, (son) of Petechonsis,
[it is who] speaks to his superior, the 'scribe the royal tablet in the forecourt 'Petosiris, the letter writer:
["Oh, may the king of the gods Amun-Re, the] great [god], be [let] his lifetime be long, giving you favor before Pharaoh Haronnophris,
[loved by Isis, loved by] the king of the gods Amun-Re , the great God, and the entire court!
I am unable to get people to stop doing the letter writer's blessings in front of the king of the gods Amun-Re, the great God,
today! He will be yours Let names last forever! I will not let the channel be empty today, from the first year
, 29th pachons to the last pachons. If there is any negligence, it will not concern me.
Reign 4, Hathyr, the eternal king Haronnophris, loved by Isis, loved by the king of the gods Amun-Re, the great god. Mrs. Senobastis, daughter of Pachnoumis, her mother is Senamounis, to the shepherd and servant of Amun Psenesis, son of Paneithes, his mother is Senesis: You have satisfied {me} my heart with the money for the value of 1.5 flats
- results in 150 square cells, in turn results in 1.5 floor spaces - within my properties, which are in the vicinity of my house, which came to me as a portion of the properties of my father, which are on the property of Amun in the west of the district of Koptos in " Place of the Persea tree "from the" Stall des Milchkruges (of Amun) ". Your Specification:
The 0.5 floor cells - results in 50 square cells, gives <again> 0.5 floor cells - within my properties, which are located north and east of my house in the east of the gate of your property, which measure 2.25 floor cells. Your neighbours: South: the rest of my 2.25 floor spaces. North: your 2.25 floors, which are divided between you and Paos,
son of Paneithes, your brother. East: the lands of Petubastis, son of Collouthes. West: your house and my house. (Section) end. The other 1 floor space - results in 100 square cells, in turn results in a floor space - within my properties, which are located to the west of my house. Your neighbours: South: the house and the land of Portis,
son of Pꜣ-wꜥ-n.ỉm⸗w. North: your property. East: again our two houses mentioned above. West: Pharaoh's Road. The neighbors of the above result in a floor space to complete (the enumeration of the neighbors) these 1.5 floor spaces. I gave it to you. You own them. Your above 1.5 floor spaces are there - results in 150 square cells, which in turn results in 1.5 floor spaces.
I have received its value in money from you, completely and without any remainder. My heart is satisfied with it. I have no thing in the world to bring up against you on their behalf now or in the future. Anyone who comes to you because of you in my name or in the name of any person in the world, I will leave you away. And I will let you be (legally) clean of every document, every court document and every thing in the world
at all times. You own their documents and their court documents in every place where they are. Every document that has been made out about them, and every document that has been made to me about them, and every document by which I am entitled in their name, they belong to you along with their legal title. You own what I am justified in about them. The oath and the proof that you will be given in court
in the name of the law of the above document, which I have made out to take, I will take while being far from you in relation to the above 1.5 issues mentioned, about which I have written to you (the certificate) without leading any process with you in any matter. Written by Petamenophis, son of Petemestous, the scribe in the "stable" at the place of Amun, who writes in the name of the priest of the king of gods Amun-Re.
[year of reign 9, day 4, Xandikos,] which, according to the Egyptians' calendar, corresponds to month 2, Peret, day 18, of the king, the young man who appeared as king in the place of his father, he of the Uraeans, his honor great, who has strengthened Egypt by making it beautiful, whose heart is benevolent to the gods, who is above his enemies, who has made the life of men beautiful, the Lord of the years of the Feast of Sed like Ptah- (Ta) tenen, of the king like Re,
[of the king of the upper districts] (and) of the lower districts, the son of the gods who love their father, whom Ptah chose (and) gave the victory to Re, the living Image of Amun, son of Re Ptolemaios, ever-living, loved by Ptah, the appearing god, whose goodness is beautiful, (son of) Ptolemaios and Arsinoe, the gods who love their father, (and the) priest of Alexander and of the saving gods and
[the sibling gods and the] benevolent [gods] and the gods who love their father and king Ptolemy, the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful, Aetos, (son of) Aetos. as Pyrrha, daughter of Philinos, Athlophore before Berenike, who was benevolent, (as) Areia, daughter of Diogenes, ⸢
Kane (3) phore⸣ (4) [before Ars] inoe, who loves her brother is when Eirene, daughter of Ptolemy, was the priestess of Arsinoe, who loves her father. On this day decree: The Lesonis (officials) and the prophets and the priests who go to the sanctuary to clothe the gods and the writers of the Book of God and the writers of the House of Life and the other priests who come from the temples of Egypt ( 5) [to Memphis] (4) have come
[on] the feast of the reception of the office of ruler from the hand of his father, which the king Ptolemy, living forever, loved by Ptah, the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful, celebrated (The priests) who have gathered in the temple of Memphis (it is) who said: Now that King Ptolemy, living forever, the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful, (son of) King Ptolemy
[ and the queen] Arsinoe, doing much good to the gods who love their father, to the temples of Egypt, and to all who are under his royal office, by being a god (and) son of a god (and) a goddess by being Horus , Son of Isis, son of Osiris, who protects his father Osiris nt, in that his heart was benevolent to the gods, (and since) he has already given the temples of Egypt a lot of money and a lot of grain,
[(and since) he has already made] many [expenses] in order to rest in Egypt to create (and) to strengthen the temples, (and since) he has already given gifts to the whole army that was under his rule, the taxes and duties that existed in Egypt, he reduced them (or) he waived them entirely to make things go well for the army and all other people in his time
as king (7). (8) [The remainder of the king’s sums, which were detrimental to the people of Egypt and to all who stand under his royal office (and) which were a great number, he remitted them. He released the people who were detained and those who had long been accused. He has given orders regarding the sacrificial foundations of the gods and the money (and) of the grain, which are given annually as syntaxis to their
[temples] (8), (9) and the portions which the gods receive from the vineyards, the orchards and all the rest of the things that they owned in his father's time, to let them remain in their possession. He has also ordered the priests not to make them pay more of their priestly tax than what they had paid up to the first year of reign in his father's time. He has exempted the people
[who were in] the offices of the temples from the annual voyages they made to Alexandria (9). (10) He has given orders not to raise rowers. He decreed two-thirds of the linen that the temples gave to the palace. All things that have been out of their state for a long time, he brings them into their equilibrium of (?)
[...] using every care to cause that which is habitual for the gods to be done is done in an appropriate manner. Likewise in causing righteousness to be created for men according to what Thoth the Twice Great had created. He also ordered that, as to those who would return from the warriors and the rest of the people who were in other ways in the disorder that had happened in Egypt, that
[they return] to their places and that their belongings remain in their possession. He devoted every care to sending infantry, cavalry (and) navy against those who had come by land (and) sea to fight Egypt. He made a great deal of money and grain to get the temples and the people who are (in) Egypt to be at rest. He went to the fortress of Shekan,
"which" was fortified by the rebels with all work, with many weapons and all equipment inside. He enclosed the said fortress on its outside with a wall (and) dam because of the rebels who were inside (and) who had already caused a lot of damage to Egypt by following the way of the king's command and the order (14) [of the gods] (13) left.
He arranged for the canals that brought water to the fortress in question to be dammed, although the earlier kings could not do the same. {You} He made a huge investment of money on it. He has ordered infantry and cavalry to the said canals to guard (and) protect them because of the flooding of the water, which was high in the eighth year of government, since
it was the said canals, the many very low-lying fields of water fed. The king took the said fortress by force in a short time. He has gained power over the rebels who were inside them. He massacred them, as Re and Harsiese did with those who
earlier (15) rebelled against them in the said places. (16) The rebels who gathered troops, taking their head, to confuse the Gaue, by damaging the temples and leaving the path of the king and his father - the gods caused him to gain power over them took place in Memphis at the feast of his father receiving the office of ruler. He arranged for them to be killed on the wood. He waived the remainder (17) for the king on the part of the temples up to reign 9 (16),
which made up large numbers of silver and grain. Likewise (he decreed) the value of the linen that the temples drew from what they gave to the palace, as well as the remainder determined from what they had given up to the said date. He also ordered it as to Artabe wheat per one (aure) field which was drawn in from the fields of God's sacrifice. Just
so (he has issued) the wine per one (aurea) field from the vineyards of the divine offerings of the gods. He refrained from it. He did much good for Apis, Mnevis and the other animals that are sacred in Egypt, more than what those who were before him did, by keeping his heart on their cause at all times, by doing that gave what was desired for their great and plentiful burials, bringing what is set
in their temples when feasts are made (and) burnt offerings made before them along with all the other things that are to be done befits. The honors due to the temples and the other honors of Egypt, he made them stand in their kind according to the law. He gave gold, silver, grain and other things for the place of Apis. He caused the work to be completed anew as
very beautiful (19) work. (20) He caused temples, chapels (and) altars to be redone for the gods. He caused others to be of their kind by being of benevolent heart with regard to the gods (and) asking for the gods' honors to be appropriately renewed in his time as king. As a reward for this, the gods have given him strength, bravery, victory, well-being,
health and all the other benefits (20), (21) by establishing his royal office under him and his children for eternity . Good luck for! It has got into the hearts of the priests of all temples of Egypt, (in relation to) the honors to which King Ptolemy, living forever, the God appearing, whose goodness is beautiful, is due in the temples,
as well as the (honors), which are due to the gods who love their father, who made him arise, as well as the (honors) due to the benevolent gods who gave birth to those who made him (= Ptolemy) arise, as well as the (honors) who the sibling gods, who gave rise to those who gave birth to them (= the benevolent gods), are due, as well as those (honors) due to the saving gods, the fathers of his fathers, to increase them (= the honors). and they (have decided) to erect a statue of King Ptolemy, ever-living, the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful,
and they have called them "Ptolemy, nḏ-bḳy", the translation of which is "Ptolemy protecting Egypt", and a statue of the city god giving him the sword of victory in every single temple in the place where in the Temple is visible by being made in Egyptian labor, and the priests are supposed to serve the statues in every single temple three times a day,
and they are supposed to put the (ritual) utensils in front of them, and they are supposed to do the rest of the things for them do what it is proper to do, according to what they do for the other gods on the feasts (and) the processions on the said days, and they are to embody the idol of King Ptolemy, the god appearing, whose goodness is beautiful ( Son of) Ptolemy and Queen Arsinoe, the gods who love {the king} <their father> and make the golden shrine appear in each
individual (24) temple, (25) and they are to take it with them in the most holy place let the other golden shrines rest. When the great festivals take place at which they make the gods appear, they are to make the shrine of the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful, appear with them. In order to recognize the shrine today and the rest of the time that is to come, one should open 10 golden royal diadems, in which there is a uraeus on (each) of them, according to what
it is proper to do on the golden diadems give the shrine in place of the urea that are on the other shrines, and the double crown should be in the middle of the tiaras. Because it (= the double crown) is the one with which the king appeared in the Temple of Memphis when what was done for him was what is due to be done when receiving the office of ruler. And one should put a papyrus and a rush (26) on the upper <square> side {of the Atef crown}, which is outside the tiaras, in front of
the above-mentioned golden tiara, (27) and one should {the Uraeus} <a vulture> on a basket with a rush underneath, on the right at the corner on the golden shrine and one should put a uraeus, with a basket underneath, on the left on a papyrus, the meaning of which is "The King, the Enlightened Upper and Lower Egypt "is. Since the last day of the fourth month of Shemu, on which the
birthday of the king  (27) is celebrated, (28) was previously established as a festival and procession in the temples, and likewise the seventeenth day of the second month of { Peret} <Achet> on which the ceremonies of the reception of the rulership are made for him - the beginning of the benefits that returned to all people, the birth of the eternal king and the reception of the rulership that he carried out - <and one should> these Days, the seventeenth and the last day of the month, are celebrated every month as a feast in all the temples of Egypt, and one should
Burnt offerings and libations and all other things that are proper to do at the other feasts every month at the two feasts (28) to do. (29) What is offered as an offering should be distributed to the people who serve in the temple. And a festival (and) a procession is to be celebrated in the temples and all over Egypt for King Ptolemy, ever-living, the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful, annually on the first day of the first month of Achet for five days by one Carrying a wreath
and doing burnt and libations and the rest of the things that are proper to do. The priests who are in the temples of Egypt, in every temple, are to be called "the priests of the appearing God whose goodness is beautiful" in addition to the other priestly titles. and one should write it in all document registrations, and one should write the office of priest of the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful, on their rings and engrave it
on them (30), (31) and it should also Private individuals who wish to be allowed to have such a golden shrine of the appearing God, whose goodness is beautiful, which is mentioned above, appear to keep it in their places, and they should carry out the festivals and processions described above annually, thus it is known that those who are in Egypt honor the God who appears, whose goodness is beautiful,
as is proper to do. and one should write the decree on a stele of hard stone in hieroglyphics, Demotic (and) Greek, and it (= the stele) should be placed in the temples of the first, second and third rank next to the statue of the eternal king.
